

===== PAGE 1 =====
AgenticAD: A Specialized Multi-Agent System
Framework for Holistic Alzheimer’s Disease
Management
Adib Bazgir
Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
University of Missouri-Columbia
Columbia, MO 65211
Amir Habibdoust
Institute for Data Science and Informatics
University of Missouri-Columbia
Columbia, MO 65211
Xing Song
Department of Biomedical Informatics, Biostatistics, and Medical Epidemiology
University of Missouri-Columbia
Columbia, MO 65211
Yuwen Zhang∗
Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
University of Missouri-Columbia
Columbia, MO 65211
Abstract
Alzheimer’s disease (AD) presents a complex, multifaceted challenge to patients,
caregivers, and the healthcare system, necessitating integrated and dynamic support
solutions. While artificial intelligence (AI) offers promising avenues for inter-
vention, current applications are often siloed, addressing singular aspects of the
disease such as diagnostics or caregiver support without systemic integration. This
paper proposes a novel methodological framework for a comprehensive, multi-
agent system (MAS) designed for holistic Alzheimer’s disease management. The
objective is to detail the architecture of a collaborative ecosystem of specialized
AI agents, each engineered to address a distinct challenge in the AD care contin-
uum, from caregiver support and multimodal data analysis to automated research
and clinical data interpretation. The proposed framework is composed of eight
specialized, interoperable agents. These agents are categorized by function: (1)
Caregiver and Patient Support, (2) Data Analysis and Research, and (3) Advanced
Multimodal Workflows. The methodology details the technical architecture of
each agent, leveraging a suite of advanced technologies including large language
models (LLMs) such as GPT-4o and Gemini, multi-agent orchestration frameworks
(AutoGen, OpenAI Agents SDK, Agno), Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)
for evidence-grounded responses, and specialized tools for web scraping (Fire-
crawl, ScrapegraphAI), multimodal data processing (vision, audio), and in-memory
database querying (DuckDB). This paper presents a detailed architectural blueprint
∗Corresponding to: zhangyu@missouri.edu and xsm7f@missouri.edu
Submitted to ArXiv.
arXiv:2510.08578v1  [cs.MA]  1 Sep 2025

===== PAGE 2 =====
for an integrated AI ecosystem for AD care. By moving beyond single-purpose
tools to a collaborative, multi-agent paradigm, this framework establishes a foun-
dation for developing more adaptive, personalized, and proactive solutions. This
methodological approach aims to pave the way for future systems capable of syn-
thesizing diverse data streams to improve patient outcomes and reduce caregiver
burden.
1 Introduction
Alzheimer’s disease (AD) represents a significant and escalating global health crisis, characterized
by a progressive decline in cognitive function that profoundly impacts patients, their families, and
healthcare systems [1]. The management of AD is not a singular clinical challenge but a complex,
long-term process involving medical treatment, cognitive support, behavioral management, and
immense caregiver burden [2]. Caregivers must navigate a vast and evolving landscape of information
regarding symptoms, safety protocols, and daily care strategies, often with limited professional
support [3]. This complexity necessitates technological solutions that are not only powerful but also
integrated, adaptive, and holistic. The advent of artificial intelligence (AI), particularly advancements
in machine learning (ML), deep learning (DL), and large language models (LLMs), has introduced
transformative potential in medicine [4]. In the context of dementia, AI applications are emerging
across the entire care continuum, including early diagnosis through neuroimaging analysis, prediction
of disease progression, drug discovery, and patient monitoring [5]. LLMs, for instance, are being
leveraged to provide companionship, summarize clinical records, and offer therapeutic assistance [6].
However, many of these powerful tools are developed and deployed in isolation, creating information
silos that limit their overall effectiveness. A diagnostic model that analyzes an MRI scan does not
communicate with a caregiver support chatbot, and a research tool that scrapes literature does not
integrate with a system monitoring a patient’s daily activities. This fragmentation mirrors the often-
disjointed nature of healthcare itself and represents a critical barrier to providing truly comprehensive,
data-driven care [7].
To overcome these limitations, a paradigm shift from monolithic, single-purpose applications to
integrated, collaborative systems is required. Multi-Agent Systems (MAS) offer a compelling archi-
tectural solution. A MAS is composed of multiple autonomous, intelligent agents that communicate
and coordinate to solve problems beyond the scope of any single agent [7]. This distributed, modular
approach is exceptionally well-suited to the multifaceted nature of AD, allowing for the creation of an
ecosystem of specialized agents that can work in concert. Such a system can enhance information shar-
ing, enable adaptive and personalized care, and optimize complex clinical and caregiving workflows.
This paper presents the methodological framework and detailed architecture of a novel, comprehen-
sive MAS designed for Alzheimer’s management. We detail the design and implementation of eight
core, specialized agents that constitute this proposed ecosystem. These agents are engineered to
perform distinct but complementary functions, spanning direct caregiver support, automated research,
structured and unstructured data analysis, and multimodal information processing. By elucidating
the technical underpinnings of each component, we provide a blueprint for an integrated system that
moves beyond isolated AI tools toward a truly holistic and collaborative platform for dementia care.
2 Methodology: A Multi-Agent Framework for Alzheimer’s Care
The proposed framework, as shown in Figure 1, is an integrated ecosystem of eight specialized AI
agents. These agents are designed to be modular and interoperable, each addressing a specific need
within the Alzheimer’s disease care and research landscape. They are grouped into three functional
categories:
1. Caregiver and Patient Support Agents
2. Data Analysis and Research Agents
3. Advanced Multimodal and Workflow Agents
2

===== PAGE 3 =====
Figure 1: High-Level Architecture of the AgenticAD AI Ecosystem.
2.1 Caregiver and Patient Support Agents
These agents are designed for direct interaction with caregivers and patients, providing evidence-based
information, personalized support, and structured guidance.
2.1.1 Alzheimer’s Support Agent
The objective is to generate a comprehensive and personalized dementia care plan based on detailed
user inputs regarding a patient’s condition and environment. This agent is implemented as a multi-
agent swarm using the Autogen framework. It consists of three distinct sub-agents: an Assessment
Agent, a Care Plan Agent, and a Follow-up Agent, all powered by the GPT-4o LLM. The user interface
is built with Streamlit. The system collects structured data from the user (e.g., age, symptoms, living
situation, safety concerns). The Assessment Agent first synthesizes this information into a clinical
summary. This summary is then passed to the Care Plan Agent, which proposes practical daily plans,
safety mitigations, and clinical next steps. Finally, the Follow-up Agent receives the preceding outputs
and generates a long-term monitoring plan, including tracking templates and escalation criteria. The
agents coordinate through a shared context and explicit handoffs, ensuring a cohesive, multi-part
report.
2.1.2 Alzheimer’s PDF Assistant Agent
For this agent, the objective is to provide a conversational interface that allows users to ask questions
and receive evidence-grounded answers from a curated knowledge base of PDF documents. This agent
employs a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) architecture. It is built using the embedchain
library, which orchestrates an OpenAI embedding model, a Chroma vector database for storage, and
an OpenAI LLM for response generation. The UI is developed with Streamlit. Users upload one or
more PDF files (e.g., clinical guidelines, caregiver manuals), which are chunked, vectorized, and
stored in a session-specific Chroma database. When a user poses a query, the system performs a
similarity search to retrieve the most relevant text chunks from the document corpus. These chunks
are then prepended to the user’s prompt as context for the LLM, which generates an answer grounded
in the provided sources, thereby mitigating hallucination and ensuring factual accuracy.
3

===== PAGE 4 =====
2.2 Data Analysis and Research Agents
This group of agents is engineered to automate the collection, extraction, and analysis of both
unstructured and structured data from web sources and user-provided datasets.
2.2.1 Alzheimer’s Deep Research Agent
The objective is to perform deep, automated web research on a specified topic and produce a
structured, multi-section report. This system uses a two-stage workflow with AutoGen SwarmAgents
and the Firecrawl web scraping service. The backend is powered by the GPT-4o LLM, with a
Streamlit interface. The workflow begins with a Research Agent that takes a user’s topic and uses
the Firecrawl tool to perform an in-depth crawl of web sources. It then synthesizes the scraped
information into an initial structured report. This report is passed to a second Elaboration Agent,
which enhances the content by adding deeper explanations, examples, and future outlooks, resulting
in a more comprehensive final document.
2.2.2 Alzheimer’s Web Scraping Agent
The objective for this agent is to extract specific, structured information from a single webpage based
on a natural language prompt. This agent utilizes the ScrapegraphAI library, which leverages an LLM
(GPT-4o-mini or GPT-4o) to parse webpage content. It includes a robust fallback mechanism that
uses the requests and BeautifulSoup libraries for basic text extraction and a direct call to the OpenAI
API with a user-defined JSON schema for structured data extraction if the primary method fails. The
user provides a URL and a prompt (e.g., “Extract the author, date, and key findings”). ScrapegraphAI
attempts to fulfill the request. If it encounters a parsing error, the fallback system fetches the page’s
raw text, truncates it, and sends it to the LLM with explicit instructions to populate a predefined
JSON object, ensuring a high likelihood of successful data extraction.
2.2.3 Alzheimer’s Data Analyst Agent
In this agent role, the objective is to enable natural language querying of structured datasets (CSV ,
XLSX) by translating user questions into executable SQL queries. This agent leverages the Agno
agent framework with an OpenAI LLM (GPT-4o-mini) as its reasoning engine. It integrates with a
DuckDB in-memory analytical database for high-performance SQL execution and uses the Pandas
library for data preprocessing. A user uploads a de-identified dataset. The data is loaded into a
DuckDB instance and exposed as a table named uploaded_data. The user asks a question in natural
language (e.g., “What is the monthly trend of agitation incidents?”). The Agno agent, guided by a
system prompt that specifies the table schema and instructs it to generate DuckDB-compatible SQL,
produces a SQL query. The application extracts this query, executes it against the database, and
displays the resulting data frame to the user.
2.3 Advanced Multimodal and Workflow Agents
This category comprises agents designed to handle complex, multi-step workflows and process
diverse, non-textual data modalities.
2.3.1 Alzheimer’s Research and Care Agent
This agent works to orchestrate a sophisticated, multi-agent research and report-generation workflow
to produce a comprehensive, caregiver-friendly brief on an Alzheimer’s-related topic. This system is
built on the OpenAI Agents SDK, which allows for the definition of specialized agents with distinct
instructions and tools that can hand off tasks to one another. It features a Triage Agent, a Research
Agent, and an Editor Agent, using GPT-4o-mini. Pydantic models are used to enforce structured
outputs. The workflow is initiated by the Triage Agent, which receives the user’s topic and generates
a structured research plan, including specific search queries biased toward reputable medical sources.
This plan is handed off to the Research Agent, which executes the queries using a built-in web search
tool and synthesizes the findings. Finally, the collected information is passed to the Editor Agent,
which writes a detailed, multi-section report in Markdown format, adhering to a predefined structure
suitable for caregivers.
4

===== PAGE 5 =====
2.3.2 Alzheimer’s Multimodal Agent
This agent’s objective is to analyze and synthesize information from multiple data modalities,
including images, audio, and video, in conjunction with web search results to generate a holistic
brief. This agent is built using the Agno framework and is powered by a multimodal foundation
model, Google Gemini. It is equipped with a DuckDuckGo web search tool to augment its analysis
with external information. The user can upload an image, audio file, and/or video file and provide a
text-based prompt. The agent processes all inputs simultaneously. The system prompt is dynamically
constructed to guide the Gemini model, specifying the target audience, key focus areas, and a strong
preference for reputable medical sources when using its web search tool. The agent’s output is a
unified, context-aware response that integrates insights from all provided media.
2.3.3 Alzheimer’s Imaging Assistant Agent
The aim of this agent is a specialized variant of the Multimodal Agent focused on the educational
analysis of brain imaging files (e.g., PNG, JPG, DICOM). This agent uses the same technical stack as
Agent 5 (Agno, Google Gemini, DuckDuckGo tools) but is equipped with a highly specialized and
safety-oriented system prompt. The agent is designed to receive a brain imaging file and provide a
structured, non-diagnostic analysis. Its prompt explicitly instructs it to follow a multi-step process:
identify the imaging modality, describe key observations in qualitative terms, discuss potential
dementia-related considerations without assigning a diagnosis, list urgent red-flag symptoms, and
provide a caregiver-friendly explanation. It uses its web search tool to find and cite reputable
resources, reinforcing its role as an educational, not a clinical, tool.
3 Results and Discussion
This section presents the operational results of each of the eight specialized agents, followed by a
discussion of their performance, significance, and implications within the broader context of the
proposed multi-agent framework for Alzheimer’s care.
3.1 Alzheimer’s Support Agent
The Alzheimer’s Support Agent was tested across three distinct user personas: “Clinician / Staff,”
“Caregiver / Family Member,” and “Person with Memory Concerns.” In each scenario, the agent
successfully generated a structured, multi-part care plan tailored to the specific inputs provided. The
output consistently comprised three main sections, generated sequentially by the agent swarm: an
Assessment Synthesis, a Safety-First Daily Care Plan, and a Follow-up and Monitoring Plan. The
agent demonstrated a high degree of personalization. For instance, when the user was a Caregiver
whose primary goal was establishing a “routine” for a 76-year-old individual with paranoia and
aggression, the generated plan emphasized monthly medication reviews for donepezil and tracking of
agitation episodes. In contrast, for a Clinician user focused on “safety” for a 76-year-old living alone
with poor judgment and frequent falls, the plan was more clinically framed, highlighting medication
adherence for memantine and sensitive prompts for discussing driving capabilities. A core component
of the agent’s output is the detailed Follow-up Plan. This section was consistently structured across
all test cases, providing actionable guidance under five key headings:
1. Check-in Cadence: Recommending weekly notes and monthly medication/behavior re-
views.
2. Tracking Template: Providing a checklist of key metrics to monitor, such as sleep hours,
agitation episodes, falls, meals, and medication adherence.
3. Escalation Criteria: Clearly defining when to contact a clinician versus seeking urgent
care/ER based on specific symptoms like acute confusion, new neurological deficits, or
injuries from falls.
4. Care Progression Planning: Offering sensitive, conversation-starting prompts for difficult
topics like driving safety and legal/financial planning.
5. Resource Refresher: Directing users to established support organizations like the
Alzheimer’s Association and local Area Agencies on Aging.
5

===== PAGE 6 =====
The results indicate that the multi-agent swarm architecture is effective at breaking down the complex
task of care planning into a logical, sequential workflow, producing a cohesive and contextually
relevant output for different end-users. The performance of the Alzheimer’s Support Agent validates
the utility of a multi-agent approach for complex, user-facing healthcare tasks. The agent directly
addresses a critical gap in dementia care: the need for accessible, structured, and personalized
information for caregivers who face immense emotional, physical, and financial strain. The caregiving
role is multifaceted, requiring knowledge of the disease, management of medical and financial duties,
and the provision of constant emotional support. By generating a comprehensive plan, the agent
functions as a cognitive offloading tool, reducing the mental burden on caregivers and providing a
clear framework for action, which is a crucial factor in preventing caregiver burnout.
Architecturally, this agent serves as a microcosm of the larger MAS concept. The use of three
specialized sub-agents (Assessment, Care Plan, Follow-up) demonstrates the principle of distributed
problem-solving, where each component handles a distinct sub-task before handing off its output
to the next specialist. This modularity is a key advantage of MAS, allowing for more focused and
maintainable components compared to a single, monolithic model attempting to perform the entire
sequence of tasks. However, the results also highlight a key limitation inherent in a system reliant
on self-reported data. The agent’s output is entirely contingent on the accuracy and completeness of
the information provided by the user. It does not have access to, nor can it verify its inputs against,
formal electronic health records (EHRs) or other clinical data sources. This underscores the necessity
for future integration-level enhancements, where such support agents can securely interact with
verified patient data to provide more robust and clinically aligned recommendations. While this
agent provides crucial supportive guidance based on user input, the next agents in the framework are
designed to address the challenge of acquiring and analyzing data from external sources.
3.2 Alzheimer’s Deep Research Agent
The Alzheimer’s Deep Research Agent was evaluated on its ability to conduct automated web research
and generate structured reports. In a successful test run, the agent was tasked with researching the
“Latest development of large language models for Alzheimer’s disease.” The agent executed its two-
stage workflow as designed. First, it produced a concise INITIAL Report that provided a high-level
summary of the topic. Subsequently, the Elaboration Agent generated a more detailed ENHANCED
Report. This enhanced version was significantly more structured, containing specific sections such as
Early Detection and Diagnosis, Drug Discovery and Development, and Practical Implications for
Stakeholders. It also included specific examples, such as a case study referencing a 2023 publication,
and a forward-looking analysis of trends like personalized medicine and integration with wearable
technology. However, testing also revealed a critical failure mode. When tasked with researching
“The application of multi-agent LLMs for Alzheimer’s disease science,” the agent failed to execute.
The system returned an error message stating, “It appears there’s a persistent issue with accessing
the research tool needed to gather information on the topic,” indicating that a failure in the external
Firecrawl API prevented the entire workflow from completing. This demonstrates that the agent’s
functionality is entirely dependent on the availability and correct configuration of its external tool.
The successful execution of this agent demonstrates the potential for AI to automate and accelerate the
process of scientific literature and information review, a foundational task in both clinical practice and
research. The two-stage architecture, moving from a brief initial summary to an in-depth enhanced
report, mirrors the human process of information gathering and synthesis. This approach allows for
rapid topic assessment followed by a more comprehensive analysis, making it a potentially powerful
tool for researchers, clinicians, and students seeking to stay abreast of rapid developments in fields
like Alzheimer’s research. The quality of the enhanced report, with its structured sections and
forward-looking analysis, suggests that such agents can move beyond simple information retrieval
to perform valuable synthesis and summarization. The failure case, however, is equally instructive.
It highlights a critical vulnerability of agent-based systems that rely on external tools and APIs:
dependency risk. The agent’s inability to function without a connection to the Firecrawl service
underscores that the robustness of the entire system is limited by the reliability of its individual
components and their connections. This is a crucial consideration for the design of any real-world
MAS, which will inevitably need to integrate with numerous external data sources, from public APIs
to hospital EHR systems. Future iterations of such agents would require more sophisticated error
handling and fallback mechanisms, such as the ability to query alternative data sources or notify a
human operator when a critical tool is unavailable. Within the proposed MAS framework, this agent
6

===== PAGE 7 =====
serves as a vital knowledge acquisition component. Its function is to transform the vast, unstructured
information of the open web into a structured, curated document. This output could then serve as
a foundational knowledge source for other agents. This illustrates the synergistic potential of the
MAS, where one agent’s primary output becomes another’s primary input, creating a value chain of
information processing and refinement.
3.3 Alzheimer’s Web Scraping Agent
The Alzheimer’s Web Scraping Agent was tested on its ability to extract targeted information from
reputable health websites. In two separate tests, the agent was tasked with extracting information on
the causations of Alzheimer’s disease from a Mayo Clinic webpage and information on treatment from
a Cleveland Clinic webpage. In both instances, the primary scraping method, SmartScraperGraph,
failed to execute. The system returned an identical error message related to a missing Playwright
executable, indicating a dependency configuration issue rather than a failure of the scraping logic
itself. Critically, the agent’s built-in fallback mechanism was successfully triggered in both cases.
The fallback system completed the task and produced a Strict JSON Fallback Output. This output
was a structured JSON object containing a summary and an array of key_points. The extracted
content was accurate and relevant to the queries. For the Mayo Clinic URL, the agent correctly
identified that Alzheimer’s is caused by a combination of genetic, lifestyle, and environmental factors
and is characterized by amyloid plaques and tau tangles. For the Cleveland Clinic URL, the agent
correctly summarized treatment options, including cholinesterase inhibitors, NMDA antagonists, and
monoclonal antibodies like lecanemab and donanemab.
The results for this agent highlight a crucial principle in the design of robust agent-based systems
which is fault tolerance. While the primary, more sophisticated scraping tool failed due to an
environmental dependency issue, a common problem in real-world software deployment, the agent’s
architectural resilience allowed it to complete its mission successfully. The two-tiered design, which
combines a complex primary tool with a simpler, more robust fallback, ensures a high degree of
reliability. This agent’s function within the broader MAS is that of a precision data extractor. Unlike
Alzheimer’s Deep research agent, which performs broad, topic-based research, this agent is designed
for surgical extraction of specific facts from a known source. Its ability to convert unstructured
HTML content into a structured JSON format is a fundamental data ingestion and normalization
task. This structured output is machine-readable and can be seamlessly consumed by other agents
in the ecosystem. For example, the key points extracted by this agent could be used to populate a
section in a report being generated by next agents, or they could serve as a concise, factual answer
to a specific query posed to Alzheimer’s support agent. The failure of SmartScraperGraph due to a
missing dependency serves as a practical illustration of the engineering challenges in building and
maintaining complex AI systems. The successful operation of the fallback mechanism, which relies
on more fundamental libraries (requests and BeautifulSoup) and a direct, schema-guided LLM call,
demonstrates a best practice in system design. It prioritizes task completion over methodological
purity, ensuring that the user receives a valuable result even when the preferred pathway is unavailable.
This emphasis on resilience is paramount for any AI system intended for deployment in critical
domains like healthcare, where system uptime and reliability are non-negotiable.
3.4 Alzheimer’s Research and Care Agent
The Alzheimer’s Research and Care Agent was evaluated on its ability to execute a complete, end-to-
end research and report generation workflow. The agent was tested on three distinct, caregiver-relevant
topics: Managing agitation and sundowning at home, What evaluations are typical when memory
loss is first noticed?, and Non-pharmacologic approaches for sleep problems in dementia. In all three
test cases, the agent successfully completed its three-stage Triage → Research → Edit workflow. The
initial Triage Agent consistently produced a structured Research Plan that refined the user’s topic and
generated a list of 3–5 specific search queries and corresponding focus areas. Notably, these queries
were automatically augmented with filters to prioritize reputable sources such as nia.nih.gov,
alz.org, and mayoclinic.org, ensuring the subsequent research phase was grounded in high-
quality information. Following the research phase, the final Editor Agent generated a comprehensive,
long-form report for each topic. The reports were consistently over 1000 words in length and followed
a predefined, caregiver-friendly structure, including sections such as Executive Summary, Evidence
Review, Practical Care Tips, Red-Flags and When to Seek Care , and Resources and Helplines. The
7

===== PAGE 8 =====
content was detailed, well-organized, and written in accessible language appropriate for a non-clinical
audience.
The performance of this agent represents a significant step forward in architectural sophistication
compared to the preceding agents. It successfully demonstrates a complete, orchestrated work-
flow automation, a hallmark of an advanced Multi-Agent System (MAS). The agent’s ability to
autonomously plan, execute, and synthesize information into a polished final product showcases the
potential for MAS to handle complex, multi-step knowledge work with minimal human intervention.
The Triage Agent’s strategic planning phase is a particularly noteworthy feature. By proactively
formulating search queries that target authoritative domains, the system embeds a crucial best practice
for medical information retrieval directly into its operational logic. This automated source-vetting is
a powerful mechanism for enhancing the reliability and trustworthiness of the final output, a critical
requirement for any AI system providing health-related information. Furthermore, the final report
generated by the Editor Agent is a high-value asset for the target audience. The consistent structure
and comprehensive nature of the output provide caregivers with actionable, easy-to-digest information
that directly addresses their most pressing concerns. This aligns with the broader goal of using AI to
empower caregivers, reduce their informational burden, and support them in their challenging roles.
Within the proposed MAS framework, this agent functions as a synthesis and orchestration engine.
It is capable of taking a high-level user request and managing a complex pipeline of sub-tasks to
deliver a complete product. This agent could theoretically orchestrate other specialized agents in
the ecosystem; for instance, it could delegate the initial web crawling to Alzheimer’s deep research
agent and the precision fact-extraction to Alzheimer’s web scraping agent before synthesizing their
outputs into its final report. This demonstrates the scalable and hierarchical potential of MAS, where
a manager agent can coordinate the work of specialist agents to achieve a complex, system-level goal.
3.5 Multimodal Imaging and Data Analysis Agents
The multimodal agents were evaluated on their capacity to analyze and interpret complex, non-textual
data, specifically brain imaging files. These agents were tested with two different brain scan images.
In both cases, the agents successfully processed the visual data and generated structured, five-part
analysis as dictated by their safety-oriented prompt. For the first image, the agent correctly identified
the likely modality as a coronal MRI or PET scan and noted a moderate to severe asymmetry between
the brain hemispheres as the primary finding. For the second image, it identified a large, well-defined
area of abnormal signal intensity in the left frontal lobe. In both tests, the agent provided a list
of possible, non-diagnostic considerations (e.g., neurodegenerative diseases, stroke, tumor) and
a simplified, patient-friendly explanation of the findings. A key capability demonstrated was the
successful integration of its internal analysis with external knowledge retrieval. After analyzing
the visual data, the agent autonomously used its DuckDuckGo search tool to find relevant research
context. For the second image, it explicitly searched for Large Frontal Lobe Lesions on MRI and
summarized key takeaways, providing links to reputable resources like the Radiology Society of
North America (RSNA) and the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS).
This demonstrates a successful fusion of computer vision-based analysis with text-based web retrieval
to produce a comprehensive and contextually enriched output.
The successful performance of these multimodal agents is critical, as it addresses a fundamental
requirement for any advanced clinical AI system: the ability to interpret heterogeneous, real-world
medical data. Clinical decision-making is rarely based on a single data type; it requires the synthesis
of information from neuroimaging, lab results, clinical notes, and patient-reported outcomes. These
agents represent the sensory and perceptual layer of the proposed MAS, capable of translating
complex, raw data like an MRI scan into a structured, machine-readable format that other agents
can utilize. The agent’s design demonstrates a strong emphasis on responsible AI principles. The
heavily constrained, safety-first system prompt forces the agent to frame its output as educational and
explicitly non-diagnostic, a crucial guardrail for preventing misuse and ensuring the tool supports,
rather than replaces, the clinician. The inclusion of a patient-friendly explanation addresses the need
for improved patient-provider communication and shared decision-making, while the automated
retrieval of research context from vetted sources enhances the transparency and trustworthiness of the
analysis. This capability is central to the vision of a holistic AI ecosystem. The structured analysis
produced by this agent could be passed to Alzheimer’s support agent to inform the creation of a more
clinically aware care plan. For example, if the imaging analysis notes significant left-hemisphere
involvement, the care plan could be automatically prompted to include specific monitoring for
8

===== PAGE 9 =====
language-related symptoms. Similarly, the findings could be incorporated into a research report by
Alzheimer’s research and care agent. This seamless flow of information, from raw pixel data to
structured analysis to actionable care planning, is the core value proposition of an integrated MAS,
enabling a level of data synthesis and proactive care that is impossible with siloed, single-modality
tools.
3.6 Alzheimer’s Data Analyst Agent
The Alzheimer’s Data Analyst Agent was evaluated on its ability to perform natural language querying
on a structured and de-identified patient dataset. The agent successfully ingested the dataset, which
contained 35 columns of demographic, clinical, and behavioral data. Two test queries were executed.
The first query was to “predict the average age of patients with BMI greater than 24.” The agent
correctly interpreted this request, generated the valid SQL query:
SELECT AVG(age) AS average_age FROM uploaded_data WHERE bmi > 24;
and the backend database executed it to return the result of 74.8731.
The second query asked the agent to “Use ML analysis and predict the value of Alcohol Consumption
for a patient at the age of 66.” Again, the agent translated this into a descriptive SQL query:
SELECT AVG(AlcoholConsumption) AS predicted_alcohol_consumption
FROM uploaded_data WHERE Age = 66;
which returned a value of 10.0227. In both cases, the agent provided a plain-language explanation of
the query and, for the second query, included a critical caveat that “individual consumption can vary
significantly and should be interpreted with caution.”
The performance of this agent demonstrates a powerful capability for democratizing data analysis in a
clinical or research context. By translating natural language questions into executable SQL, the agent
effectively removes the technical barrier to entry for exploring structured datasets. This allows users
without programming expertise, such as clinicians, caregivers, or patient advocates, to directly query
data and derive quantitative insights. A crucial aspect of the agent’s behavior is its conservative and
safe interpretation of ambiguous user prompts, particularly the word “predict.” Instead of attempting
to build a complex and potentially uninterpretable machine learning model to predict an individual
outcome, a task fraught with ethical and technical challenges, the agent defaults to a transparent and
statistically sound descriptive analysis (i.e., calculating a conditional average). This design choice
aligns with the principle of interpretability, which is paramount in healthcare applications where
“black box” models can erode trust and obscure the reasoning behind a decision. The agent provides a
descriptive prediction for a cohort, which is a verifiable fact from the data, rather than an inferential
prediction for an individual, which would be a probabilistic estimate. Within the MAS framework,
this agent functions as the structured data interpreter. It is the component responsible for extracting
specific, quantitative facts from large, tabular datasets like EHR exports or clinical trial results. The
numerical outputs from this agent can serve as high-value inputs for other agents. For instance, a
statistic generated by this Agent could be seamlessly integrated into a research report by Alzheimer’s
research and care agent or used by Alzheimer’s support agent to provide a data-driven rationale for
a specific care plan recommendation. This agent, therefore, acts as a critical bridge between raw,
structured data and actionable, human-understandable knowledge.
3.7 Alzheimer’s PDF Assistant
The Alzheimer’s PDF Assistant was tested on its ability to ingest and answer questions based on
user-uploaded scientific articles. In two separate tests, the agent was provided with a PDF and a
natural language query about its contents. In the first test, the agent was given a research paper
and asked to “summarize the main results of this work.” It successfully extracted and presented a
four-point summary covering the paper’s key findings on individual clinical profiles, blood-based
biomarkers, and early diagnosis. In the second test, the agent was given a different paper and asked
to “list out the results of this work.” The agent provided a more detailed, structured summary of the
Ginkgo Evaluation of Memory Study (GEMS) , including specific quantitative details about the study’s
duration and participant numbers, as well as key findings related to beta-amyloid levels. Crucially,
9

===== PAGE 10 =====
this response included a citation to the source document, demonstrating its ability to maintain data
provenance.
The performance of this agent provides a clear demonstration of the value of the Retrieval-Augmented
Generation (RAG) architecture in a medical context. RAG is a critical technique for building
trustworthy LLM applications, as it grounds the model’s responses in a specific, verifiable corpus of
information, thereby mitigating the risk of factual inaccuracies or hallucinations. This is particularly
important in healthcare, where the accuracy and reliability of information are paramount. A systematic
review and meta-analysis of RAG in biomedicine found that its implementation leads to a statistically
significant increase in performance compared to baseline LLMs. Within the proposed MAS, this
agent serves as the curated knowledge expert. It enables the creation of highly specialized, private
knowledge bases that can be tailored to the needs of a specific user, whether a caregiver uploading
support manuals or a clinician uploading the latest clinical trial data. This capability for rapid,
on-demand knowledge base creation is a powerful tool for personalization. The true potential of
this agent is realized through its synergy with other agents in the ecosystem. The static, long-form
reports generated by the research agents can be ingested by this agent, transforming them from
read-only documents into interactive, conversational resources. This creates a powerful workflow:
broad, automated research is conducted, the findings are synthesized into a curated report, and that
report then becomes a dynamic knowledge base that users can query in natural language. While
the current implementation is highly effective for single-document question-answering, it is limited
by the vanilla RAG architecture, which can struggle with complex questions requiring multi-step
reasoning across multiple sources. Future work should explore iterative RAG techniques that allow
the agent to perform multiple rounds of information-seeking to synthesize answers to more complex
clinical queries.
4 Conclusion
This paper has presented a detailed architectural and methodological framework for a comprehensive
Multi-Agent System (MAS) designed to address the multifaceted challenges of Alzheimer’s disease.
Through the individual design and evaluation of eight specialized agents, we have demonstrated
the viability of applying a diverse suite of modern AI technologies, from multi-agent swarms and
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) to multimodal analysis and natural language database query-
ing, to distinct problems across the dementia care continuum. The results confirm that specialized
agents can effectively execute complex, domain-specific tasks. The support agents provide per-
sonalized, evidence-grounded information that can serve as a crucial cognitive offloading tool for
overburdened caregivers. The research and data analysis agents showcase the potential to automate
knowledge acquisition and democratize data analysis, transforming unstructured web content and
complex datasets into actionable insights. Finally, the advanced workflow and multimodal agents
illustrate the capacity for sophisticated workflow orchestration and the interpretation of critical
non-textual data like neuroimaging, all while operating within safety-conscious, non-diagnostic
frameworks. However, the true significance of this framework lies not in the performance of any
single agent, but in the emergent potential of their integration. The architectural blueprint presented
here is predicated on the principle of synergy: the structured report from the Research Agent can
become the verifiable knowledge base for the PDF Assistant; the quantitative analysis from the
Data Analyst can inform the personalized recommendations of the Support Agent; and the imaging
insights from the Multimodal Agent can trigger a proactive care planning workflow managed by
the Orchestration Agent. This collaborative potential represents a paradigm shift from the current
landscape of siloed AI tools to a holistic ecosystem capable of synthesizing heterogeneous data
into a coherent, patient-centric model of care. This work also highlights the critical challenges that
must be addressed to realize this vision. The operational dependencies and failure modes observed
in agents reliant on external tools underscore the need for robust, fault-tolerant engineering. More
importantly, while this paper provides the methodological foundation, the next frontier is technical
integration and clinical validation. Future research must focus on developing secure, interoperable
communication protocols and sophisticated orchestration layers that allow these disparate agents
to collaborate effectively and safely. Concurrently, these systems must be subjected to rigorous,
prospective clinical trials to validate their efficacy, safety, and real-world impact on patient and
caregiver outcomes. In conclusion, the transition from single-purpose AI applications to integrated
Multi-Agent Systems is a necessary and logical evolution for the field of dementia care. The eight
agents detailed in this paper serve as the foundational components of such a system, each providing
10

===== PAGE 11 =====
a critical capability. By building upon this methodological framework and tackling the challenges
of integration and validation, the field can move closer to the ultimate goal of P4 medicine, a future
where Alzheimer’s care is Predictive, Personalized, Preventive, and Participatory, transforming the
management of this devastating disease and improving the quality of life for millions.
11

===== PAGE 12 =====
References
[1] Dobbins, N., Xiong, C., Lan, K. & Yetisgen, M. (2025) Large language model-based agents for automated
research reproducibility: An exploratory study in Alzheimer’s disease. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.23852.
[2] Gao, S., Fang, A., Huang, Y ., Giunchiglia, V ., Noori, A., Schwarz, J.R., Ektefaie, Y ., Kondic, J. & Zitnik, M.
(2024) Empowering biomedical discovery with AI agents. Cell 187(22):6125–6151.
[3] Hou, W., Yang, G., Du, Y ., Lau, Y ., Liu, L., He, J., Long, L. & Wang, S. (2025) ADAgent: LLM agent for
Alzheimer’s disease analysis with collaborative coordinator.arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.11150.
[4] Gorenshtein, A., Shihada, K., Sorka, M., Aran, D. & Shelly, S. (2025) LITERAS: Biomedical literature
review and citation retrieval agents. Computers in Biology and Medicine 192:110363.
[5] Li, R., Wang, X., Berlowitz, D., Mez, J., Lin, H. & Yu, H. (2025) CARE-AD: A multi-agent large language
model framework for Alzheimer’s disease prediction using longitudinal clinical notes.NPJ Digital Medicine
8(1):541.
[6] Cummings, J., Feldman, H.H. & Scheltens, P. (2019) The “rights” of precision drug development for
Alzheimer’s disease.Alzheimer’s Research & Therapy11(1):76.
[7] Khalil, R.A., Ahmad, K. & Ali, H. (2025) Redefining elderly care with agentic AI: Challenges and
opportunities. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.14912.
12

===== PAGE 13 =====
A Technical Appendices and Supplementary Material
This appendix provides the unabridged sample outputs that serve as the primary empirical evidence
for the analysis presented in the "Results and Discussion" section of this paper. These documents
offer a transparent and detailed view of each specialized agent’s performance, allowing the reader
to directly observe their architectural capabilities, the quality of their generated content, and the
specific mechanisms discussed in the main text. The materials are organized to correspond with the
agents evaluated in Section 3. To facilitate a clear understanding, we encourage the reader to note the
following specific features within the provided outputs:
• For the Alzheimer’s Support Agent: Observe the distinct outputs generated for the
"Clinician," "Caregiver," and "Person with Memory Concerns" user personas.
Pay particular attention to how the tone, terminology, and specific action items within
the "Follow-up & Monitoring Plan" are tailored to each audience, demonstrating the
agent’s capacity for personalization.
• For the Data Analysis and Research Agents:
– Deep Research Agent: The results illustrate both a successful run, which produced a
detailed, multi-section "ENHANCED Report" , and a failure case, where a dependency
on an external tool halted the workflow. This highlights the agent’s potential for
synthesis as well as its operational vulnerabilities.
– Web Scraping Agent: The outputs for this agent are a direct illustration of architectural
resilience. In both examples, note the initial "SmartScraperGraph error" message
followed by the successful "Strict JSON Fallback Output" . This demonstrates
the fault-tolerance mechanism that allows the agent to complete its task despite the
failure of its primary tool.
– Data Analyst Agent: The results showcase the agent’s core text-to-SQL capability.
For the query "predict the average age of patients with BMI greater
than 24," observe the direct translation into the SQL query SELECT AVG(age)... .
This exemplifies how the agent democratizes data analysis by converting natural lan-
guage into a formal database query.
• For the Advanced Multimodal and Workflow Agents:
– Research and Care Agent: The outputs for this agent highlight its sophisticated,
multi-step orchestration. Review the structured JSON "Research Plan" gener-
ated by the Triage Agent, and note the programmatic use of site: filters (e.g.,
site:nia.nih.gov, site:alz.org) to ensure the subsequent research is grounded
in authoritative sources.
– Imaging Assistant and Multimodal Agent: The results from these agents demon-
strate the interpretation of non-textual data. In the imaging analysis, observe
the structured, five-part report that moves from technical "Key Findings" to a
"Patient-Friendly Explanation" . Critically, the "Diagnostic Assessment
(Non-diagnostic)" section showcases the safety guardrails that prevent the agent
from making a clinical diagnosis, instead framing its output with cautious, educational
language.
– PDF Assistant: The outputs exemplify the Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)
architecture. The agent’s ability to extract detailed, quantitative findings from the
"Ginkgo Evaluation of Memory Study" and conclude its response with a direct citation
demonstrating how this agent grounds its responses in the provided source material to
ensure accuracy and data provenance.
By examining these raw outputs in conjunction with the analysis in the main text, the reader can gain
a comprehensive and granular understanding of how each component of the proposed Multi-Agent
System functions in practice and contributes to the overall goal of providing holistic, data-driven
support for Alzheimer’s disease management.
13

===== PAGE 14 =====
🧠  Alzheimer’s
Support Agent
Your Care Team of AI Agents
🧭  Assessment Agent — synthesizes cognitive, functional, and
behavioral concerns 🛟  Care Plan Agent — proposes practical,
safety-first daily plans and clinical next steps 🔁  Follow-up
Agent — sets monitoring cadence, caregiver supports, and
escalation rules
Who’s Filling This Out?
I am a...
Clinician / Staﬀ
Profile & Context
Age (years)
76
Approximate onset of concerns
1–3 years
Living situation
Alone
Changes in daily activities
(ADLs/IADLs)
Driving
Finances/bills
Safety concerns
Getting lost
Cognitive, Behavioral, and Physical
Symptoms
Cognitive symptoms
OpenAI API Key
Enter your OpenAI API Key
••••••••••••••••••••••••••
⚠  Medical
Disclaimer
This tool provides
educational, supportive
information for
Alzheimer's/dementia
care and is not a
medical diagnosis.
Always consult a
licensed healthcare
professional for
diagnosis and treatment
decisions.
Emergencies: Call 911
or your local emergency
number immediately.
Assessment summary
updated
Care plan draft updated

===== PAGE 15 =====
Poor judgment
Behavioral/psychological symptoms
Depression
Physical/neurologic symptoms
Frequent falls
Medical Background
Current medications (include memory meds if any)
memantine
Relevant conditions
diabetes
Recent evaluations & results (optional)
e.g., PCP visit, neuropsych testing, MRI/CT, labs (TSH/B12),
MoCA/MMSE scores
Caregiver stress/burden (1 = low, 10 = very high)
5
Primary goals or concerns
safety
Generate Alzheimer’s Care Plan

===== PAGE 16 =====
Assessment Synthesis
Safety-First Daily Care Plan
Follow-up & Monitoring Plan
Followup Plan
1. Check-in Cadence:
Weekly caregiver notes to monitor stress and the overall
status of the care recipient.
Monthly review of medications and behaviors to ensure
current protocols are eﬀective and to adjust as needed.
2. Tracking Template:
Sleep Hours: Daily logging of total sleep.
Agitation Episodes: Record frequency, duration, and
possible triggers.
Falls: Note any incidents, circumstances, and
outcomes.
Meals: Track daily meal intake to ensure nutritional
needs.
Medication Adherence: Daily checklist for medication
compliance.
Enjoyable Activities: Document activities engaged in
that improve mood or cognitive function.
3. Escalation Criteria:
Call the clinician if there are signs of acute confusion,
changes in behavior, or new neurological deficits.
Seek urgent care or ER for severe dehydration, injuries,
or wandering incidents not safely managed.
4. Care Progression Planning:
Periodically revisit safety measures and the individual's
ability to drive; discuss these issues sensitively by

===== PAGE 17 =====
asking, “How do you feel about your current safety at
home?” or “Are there areas where you feel more
support might be helpful?”
Engage in legal/financial planning discussions. Neutral
prompts could include, “Have we looked at all options
for future planning?” or “Is there anyone you trust to
make decisions on your behalf if needed?”
5. Resource Refresher:
Access local services through agencies like the Area
Agency on Aging and the Alzheimer’s Association.
Encourage use of online educational modules to stay
informed about dementia care and management
strategies.
By adhering to this structured follow-up plan, caregivers can
provide better support, ensuring a safer and more manageable
routine for the cared-for individual.
✨  Alzheimer’s support plan generated.

===== PAGE 18 =====
🧠  Alzheimer’s Support
Agent
Your Care Team of AI Agents
🧭  Assessment Agent — synthesizes cognitive, functional, and behavioral
concerns 🛟  Care Plan Agent — proposes practical, safety-first daily plans
and clinical next steps 🔁  Follow-up Agent — sets monitoring cadence,
caregiver supports, and escalation rules
Who’s Filling This Out?
I am a...
Caregiver / Family Member
Profile & Context
Age (years)
76
Approximate onset of concerns
1–3 years
Living situation
With spouse/partner
Changes in daily activities (ADLs/IADLs)
Appointments
Safety concerns
Aggression
Cognitive, Behavioral, and PhysicalSymptoms
Cognitive symptoms
Word-finding/la…
Behavioral/psychological symptoms
Paranoia/delusi…
OpenAI API Key
Enter your OpenAI API Key
••••••••••••••••••••••••••
⚠  Medical
Disclaimer
This tool provides
educational, supportive
information for
Alzheimer's/dementia
care and is not a
medical diagnosis.
Always consult a
licensed healthcare
professional for
diagnosis and treatment
decisions.
Emergencies: Call 911
or your local emergency
number immediately.
Assessment summary
updated
Care plan draft updated

===== PAGE 19 =====
Physical/neurologic symptoms
Weight loss
Medical Background
Current medications (include memory meds if any)
donepezil
Relevant conditions
hypertention
Recent evaluations & results (optional)
e.g., PCP visit, neuropsych testing, MRI/CT, labs (TSH/B12), MoCA/MMSE
scores
Caregiver stress/burden (1 = low, 10 = very high)
8
Primary goals or concerns
routine
Generate Alzheimer’s Care Plan
Assessment Synthesis
Safety-First Daily Care Plan
Follow-up & Monitoring Plan
Followup Plan

===== PAGE 20 =====
1. Check-in Cadence:
Weekly: Have caregivers provide weekly notes covering any
significant changes in behavior, routine adherence, and general
observations.
Monthly: Conduct a medication and behavior review to ensure
there's adherence to donepezil and to track any potential side
eﬀects or eﬀicacy changes. Reevaluate any aggressive episodes or
paranoia symptoms to assess if further professional intervention
may be needed.
2. Tracking Template:
Sleep Hours
Agitation Episodes
Falls or Near Falls
Meals (intake and any weight changes)
Medications Adherence
Enjoyable/Calming Activities Participated
3. Escalation Criteria:
Contact Clinician: If there is a noticeable increase in paranoia,
delusions, or any changes in the baseline cognitive symptoms.
Urgent Care/ER: Acute confusion, any sudden new neurological
deficits, signs of severe dehydration, injuries from falls, or wandering
incidents that couldn't be safely managed.
4. Care Progression Planning:
Revisit home safety measures every 3 months or as significant
cognitive changes occur.
Discuss driving capabilities, if applicable, using calm and non-
judgmental prompts such as, "How have you been feeling about
driving recently?"
Engage in discussions about legal or financial planning, ensuring the
Power of Attorney and advance directives are up to date. Prompt
with, "It might be helpful to make sure we have all the right papers
in order just in case."
5. Resource Refresher:
Find local services through the Area Agency on Aging or contact the
Alzheimer’s Association for support groups and resources.
Encourage the caregiver to engage with online educational modules
focused on stress management, dealing with dementia-related

===== PAGE 21 =====
behaviors, and cognitive engagement strategies. These could
provide much-needed support and learning.
This plan is about creating a steady framework for both the caregiver and
the individual while ensuring that you remain flexible to adjustments as
changes occur in health and capabilities.
✨  Alzheimer’s support plan generated.

===== PAGE 22 =====
🧠  Alzheimer’s Support Agent
Your Care Team of AI Agents
🧭  Assessment Agent — synthesizes cognitive, functional, and behavioral concerns 🛟
Care Plan Agent — proposes practical, safety-first daily plans and clinical next steps 🔁
Follow-up Agent — sets monitoring cadence, caregiver supports, and escalation rules
Who’s Filling This Out?
I am a...
Person with Memory Concerns
Profile & Context
Age (years)
67
Approximate onset of concerns
6–12 months
Living situation
Assisted living
Changes in daily activities (ADLs/IADLs)
Appointments
Hygiene/bathing
Safety concerns
Leaving stove on
Cognitive, Behavioral, and Physical Symptoms
Cognitive symptoms
Word-finding/la…
Behavioral/psychological symptoms
Hallucinations
Physical/neurologic symptoms
Frequent falls Pain/discomfort
Medical Background
Current medications (include memory meds if any)
OpenAI API Key
Enter your OpenAI API Key
••••••••••••••••••••••••••
⚠  MedicalDisclaimer
This tool provides
educational, supportive
information for
Alzheimer's/dementia
care and is not a
medical diagnosis.
Always consult a
licensed healthcare
professional for
diagnosis and treatment
decisions.
Emergencies: Call 911
or your local emergency
number immediately.
Assessment summary
updated
Care plan draft updated

===== PAGE 23 =====
sertraline
Relevant conditions
stroke
Recent evaluations & results (optional)
e.g., PCP visit, neuropsych testing, MRI/CT, labs (TSH/B12), MoCA/MMSE scores
Caregiver stress/burden (1 = low, 10 = very high)
9
Primary goals or concerns
planning next steps
Generate Alzheimer’s Care Plan
Assessment Synthesis
Safety-First Daily Care Plan
Follow-up & Monitoring Plan
Followup Plan
1. Check-in Cadence:
Weekly Caregiver Notes: Encourage caregivers to document any changes,
concerns, or notable incidents within the week.
Monthly Medication/Behavior Review: Ensure any new behaviors or responses
to medications are assessed by a healthcare professional.
Biweekly Safety Assessment: Review of environment and personal safety
measures.
2. Tracking Template:
Sleep Hours: Daily entry of hours slept.
Agitation Episodes: Record events of unusual agitation or distress.
Falls: Note date, time, and circumstances of any falls.

===== PAGE 24 =====
Meals: Log daily intake and appetite changes.
Meds Adherence: Check whether medications are taken as prescribed.
Enjoyable Activities: List any participated activities that were enjoyable.
3. Escalation Criteria:
Clinician Contact: If hallucinations worsen, language abilities significantly
decline, or new cognitive/behavioral changes develop.
Urgent Care/ER: Required for acute confusion, new neurological deficits, severe
dehydration, injuries from falls, or unmanaged wandering.
4. Care Progression Planning:
Revisit important topics regularly to ensure they are up-to-date:
Safety: “How are the safety measures working for everyone?”
Driving: “Have you reflected on current driving needs or alternatives?”
Legal/Financial Planning: “Is there anything we should review in the
legal/financial plans?”
5. Resource Refresher:
Local Services: Contact your local Area Agency on Aging or Alzheimer's
Association for assistance with finding caregiver resources and support
networks.
Online Educational Modules: Encourage participation in online modules and
webinars about dementia progression and care strategies.
This follow-up and monitoring plan promotes ongoing evaluation and adaptation to
changes in health and wellbeing, while ensuring caregiver support remains a key focus.
✨  Alzheimer’s support plan generated.

===== PAGE 25 =====
🧠  Alzheimerʼs Data Analyst Agent
U p l o a d  a  d e - i d e n t i f i e d  C S V / X L S X  ( e . g . ,  c a r e g i v er  l o g s ,  M o C A / M M S E  s c o r es ,  i n c i d en t s ,  m e d s )  →  t h e  a g e n t  w r i t e s  S Q L  →  w e  r u n  i t  i n
D u c k D B  a n d  s h o w  r e s u l t s .
Upload de-identified CSV or Excel
Drag and drop file here
Limit 200MB per file • CSV, XLSX
 Browse files
alzheimers_disease_data.csv0.6MB
Data ingested ✅
Columns:
[
0 :
"PatientID"
1 :
"Age"
2 :
"Gender"
3 :
"Ethnicity"
4 :
"EducationLevel"
5 :
"BMI"
6 :
"Smoking"
7 :
"AlcoholConsumption"
8 :
"PhysicalActivity"
9 :
"DietQuality"
1 0 :
"SleepQuality"
1 1 :
"FamilyHistoryAlzheimers"
1 2 :
"CardiovascularDisease"
1 3 :
"Diabetes"
1 4 :
"Depression"
1 5 :
"HeadInjury"
1 6 :
"Hypertension"
1 7 :
"SystolicBP"
1 8 :
"DiastolicBP"
1 9 :
"CholesterolTotal"
2 0 :
"CholesterolLDL"
2 1 :
"CholesterolHDL"
2 2 :
"CholesterolTriglycerides"
2 3 :
"MMSE"
2 4 :
"FunctionalAssessment"
2 5 :
"MemoryComplaints"
2 6 :
"BehavioralProblems"
2 7 :
"ADL"
2 8 :
"Confusion"
2 9 :
"Disorientation"
3 0 :
"PersonalityChanges"
3 1 :
"DifficultyCompletingTasks"
3 2 :
"Forgetfulness"
3 3 :
"Diagnosis"
API Key
OpenAI API Key
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
API key saved!
Clinical Safety
For educational use only. Notmedical advice. Do not useidentifiable PHI. Prefer aggregatedresults; avoid row-level data unlessabsolutely necessary.
Tips
Use the table name uploaded_data in
your questions.
Ask for trends, counts, groupcomparisons, etc.
You can request date bucketing
(weekly/monthly) and stratification(e.g., by stage).

===== PAGE 26 =====
]
3 4 :
"DoctorInCharge"
Ask a question
Example 1
 Example 2
 Example 3
 Example 4
 Example 5
Question about your Alzheimerʼs dataset (table = uploaded_data):
predict the average age of patients with BMI greater than 24
Submit Query
Agent Response
This query calculates the average age of patients whose Body Mass Index (BMI) is greater than 24. The result willgive insight into the age of this specific group of patients, which can be important for understanding health trends i
individuals with higher BMI.
SELECT AVG(age) AS average_ageFROM uploaded_dataWHERE bmi > 24;
SELECT AVG(age) AS average_ageFROM uploaded_dataWHERE bmi > 24;
Query OK — 1 rows


===== PAGE 27 =====
Download Results CSV

===== PAGE 28 =====
🧠  Alzheimerʼs Data Analyst Agent
U p l o a d  a  d e - i d e n t i f i e d  C S V / X L S X  ( e . g . ,  c a r e g i v er  l o g s ,  M o C A / M M S E  s c o r es ,  i n c i d en t s ,  m e d s )  →  t h e  a g e n t  w r i t e s  S Q L  →  w e  r u n  i t  i n
D u c k D B  a n d  s h o w  r e s u l t s .
Upload de-identified CSV or Excel
Drag and drop file here
Limit 200MB per file • CSV, XLSX
 Browse files
alzheimers_disease_data.csv0.6MB
Data ingested ✅
Columns:
[
0 :
"PatientID"
1 :
"Age"
2 :
"Gender"
3 :
"Ethnicity"
4 :
"EducationLevel"
5 :
"BMI"
6 :
"Smoking"
7 :
"AlcoholConsumption"
8 :
"PhysicalActivity"
9 :
"DietQuality"
1 0 :
"SleepQuality"
1 1 :
"FamilyHistoryAlzheimers"
1 2 :
"CardiovascularDisease"
1 3 :
"Diabetes"
1 4 :
"Depression"
1 5 :
"HeadInjury"
1 6 :
"Hypertension"
1 7 :
"SystolicBP"
1 8 :
"DiastolicBP"
1 9 :
"CholesterolTotal"
2 0 :
"CholesterolLDL"
2 1 :
"CholesterolHDL"
2 2 :
"CholesterolTriglycerides"
2 3 :
"MMSE"
2 4 :
"FunctionalAssessment"
2 5 :
"MemoryComplaints"
2 6 :
"BehavioralProblems"
2 7 :
"ADL"
2 8 :
"Confusion"
2 9 :
"Disorientation"
3 0 :
"PersonalityChanges"
3 1 :
"DifficultyCompletingTasks"
3 2 :
"Forgetfulness"
3 3 :
"Diagnosis"
API Key
OpenAI API Key
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
API key saved!
Clinical Safety
For educational use only. Notmedical advice. Do not useidentifiable PHI. Prefer aggregatedresults; avoid row-level data unlessabsolutely necessary.
Tips
Use the table name uploaded_data in
your questions.
Ask for trends, counts, groupcomparisons, etc.
You can request date bucketing
(weekly/monthly) and stratification(e.g., by stage).

===== PAGE 29 =====
]
3 4 :
"DoctorInCharge"
Ask a question
Example 1
 Example 2
 Example 3
 Example 4
 Example 5
Question about your Alzheimerʼs dataset (table = uploaded_data):
Use ML analysis and predict the value of AlcoholConsumption for a patient at the age of 66
Submit Query
Agent Response
The average alcohol consumption for patients aged 66 can provide an indication of what you might expect for a
patient of that age. This is based on the data trends observed in the dataset, but individual consumption can varysignificantly and should be interpreted with caution.
SELECT     AVG(AlcoholConsumption) AS predicted_alcohol_consumptionFROM 
    uploaded_dataWHERE 
    Age = 66;
SELECT     AVG(AlcoholConsumption) AS predicted_alcohol_consumptionFROM 
    uploaded_dataWHERE 
    Age = 66;
Query OK — 1 rows

===== PAGE 30 =====
Download Results CSV

===== PAGE 31 =====
📘  Alzheimer’s Deep
Research Agent
This agent performs deep web research using Firecrawl, then
enhances the report.
Enter your research topic:
The application of multi-agent LLMs for Alzheimer’s disease scien
Initial Report
Introduction
Multi-agent Large Language Models (LLMs) represent a promising
avenue for scientific discovery, particularly in the field of
Alzheimer’s disease research. By integrating various AI models,
researchers aim to accelerate the discovery of potential treatments
and understand the disease mechanism more comprehensively.
Understanding Multi-Agent
LLMs
Multi-agent LLMs involve multiple AI models working cohesively to
solve complex problems that single AI models cannot easily
address. Each agent in the system can specialize in diﬀerent aspects
of research, such as data analysis, hypothesis generation, or
experimental design.
API Configuration
OpenAI API Key
••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Firecrawl API Key
••••••••••••••••••••••••••
B o th  k e y s  a re  re q u ire d  to  ru n .

===== PAGE 32 =====
Application in Alzheimer’s
Research
Data Analysis
Multi-agent LLMs can process vast datasets, identifying patterns and
correlations that may lead to new insights. They can rapidly analyze
genetic data, patient histories, and existing research findings to
identify potential biomarkers or therapeutic targets.
Hypothesis Generation
These models can generate novel hypotheses by extrapolating
existing data and trends. In Alzheimer’s research, they can help
predict disease progression or patient response to therapies by
simulating diﬀerent scenarios.
Experimental Design
Agents can assist in designing experiments by suggesting optimal
protocols and conditions based on historical successes and failures
in Alzheimer’s research. This can accelerate the validation of new
treatments.
Challenges and Future
Directions
Despite their potential, multi-agent LLMs face challenges such as
data quality, model interpretation, and integration into existing
workflows. Future research will focus on improving model
trustworthiness and adaptability in clinical settings.
Conclusion

===== PAGE 33 =====
The application of multi-agent LLMs in Alzheimer’s disease research
holds significant promise. By improving data analysis, hypothesis
generation, and experimental design, these AI systems may pave
the way for groundbreaking discoveries in the prevention and
treatment of Alzheimer’s disease.
References
Research on AI models and Alzheimer’s
Start Research
View Initial Research Report
It appears there's a persistent issue with accessing the
research tool needed to gather information on the topic.
Unfortunately, without this tool, I cannot complete the
workflow as required.
If possible, please contact support to address this technical
issue, or alternatively, if there are other tasks you need
assistance with, feel free to let me know!
Download Report
P o w e re d  b y  A G 2 / A u to G e n  S w a rm  a n d  F ire c ra w l

===== PAGE 34 =====
📘  Alzheimer’s Deep
Research Agent
This agent performs deep web research using Firecrawl, then
enhances the report.
Enter your research topic:
Latest development of large language models for Alzheimer’s dise
INITIAL Report
Large language models (LLMs) have shown great promise in
advancing the understanding and treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
These models, which are capable of processing and analyzing vast
amounts of text data, can identify patterns and insights that might
be missed by traditional research methods. Recently, there have
been significant advancements in using LLMs for the early
detection, diagnosis, and potential treatment strategies for
Alzheimer's.
LLMs can analyze electronic health records to identify early
symptoms and risk factors that might predispose individuals to
Alzheimer's. This capability is particularly valuable because early
detection is crucial in managing and potentially slowing the
progression of the disease. Furthermore, LLMs can assist in drug
discovery by analyzing scientific literature to identify potential drug
candidates, which can then be tested in the lab.
Although the application of LLMs in Alzheimer's research is still in
the early stages, the potential benefits are vast. Collaboration
between AI researchers, neuroscientists, and medical professionals
is essential to ensure these models are eﬀectively used in clinical
settings.
API Configuration
OpenAI API Key
••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Firecrawl API Key
••••••••••••••••••••••••••
B o th  k e y s  a re  re q u ire d  to  ru n .

===== PAGE 35 =====
In the coming years, as LLMs continue to evolve, we can expect
more refined algorithms that oﬀer even greater accuracy and
reliability. This progress has the potential to significantly impact not
only Alzheimer's research but also the broader field of neurological
disorders.
ENHANCED Report
Understanding the Role of
Large Language Models in
Alzheimer's Research
Large language models (LLMs), characterized by their capability to
process and analyze vast quantities of textual data, oﬀer
transformative potential in Alzheimer's disease research. These
models, such as GPT-4, can parse medical records, scientific
publications, and database entries to uncover patterns and
associations that traditional research methodologies might
overlook. Here, we explore the latest developments, applications,
and trajectory of LLMs in the context of Alzheimer's Disease.
Deep Insights with Advanced
LLMs
Early Detection and Diagnosis
LLMs are revolutionizing the early detection of Alzheimer’s through
the meticulous analysis of electronic health records (EHRs). By
recognizing symptomatic expressions across large datasets, they
can identify subtle linguistic cues linked to cognitive decline that
may precede clinical diagnosis. For example, the diﬀiculty in
retrieving specific words and constructing complex sentences can
be early indicators of neurological deterioration. Case Study: A 2023

===== PAGE 36 =====
study published in the Journal of Alzheimer's Research used LLMs to
analyze speech patterns from EHRs and found a correlation
between linguistic anomalies and the early onset of Alzheimer's,
leading to earlier intervention.
Drug Discovery and Development
The utilization of LLMs in drug discovery involves sifting through
vast compendiums of pharmacological data and scientific literature
to predict molecular reactions. LLMs enhance the drug discovery
pipeline by identifying promising compounds that could modify
disease outcomes, oﬀering a starting point for lab-based
experimentation. Example: LLMs processed millions of abstracts
from biomedical literature to propose new therapeutic targets,
aiding in the rapid initiation of clinical trials for potential
Alzheimer's treatments.
Trends and Outlook
Trends
As LLMs advance, their ability to generate hypotheses and design
semi-autonomous research protocols will increase. Integration with
multi-modal AI systems, which combine text, image, and biological
data processing, is a major trend, enhancing comprehensive
disease modeling.
Near-Future Outlook
The future of LLMs in Alzheimer's disease research will likely
include:
Personalized Medicine: Tailored treatment plans based on an
individual's specific risk profile and genetic markers.
Integration with Wearable Technology: Leveraging real-time
data from devices to monitor cognitive health trends, facilitated
by LLM-powered analytics.

===== PAGE 37 =====
Improved Data Interoperability: With the adoption of universal
data standards enhancing data sharing between institutions,
LLMs will be pivotal in synthesizing information from varied
sources.
Practical Implications for
Stakeholders
For Researchers
LLMs oﬀer a robust tool for generating insights from data-heavy
research fields. Researchers must engage with AI experts to develop
algorithms tuned to the nuances of Alzheimer's pathology.
For Healthcare Practitioners
These models can assist in clinical settings by suggesting diagnostic
and therapeutic pathways based on the latest data-driven insights,
encouraging their inclusion in medical training.
For Policy Makers
Investment in AI infrastructure and regulatory frameworks is crucial
to ensure the ethical deployment of LLMs, safeguarding patient
privacy while maximizing societal benefits.
The continued evolution of LLMs heralds a promising era in
Alzheimer’s research, potentially transforming diagnostic and
therapeutic paradigms that could lead to better patient outcomes
worldwide.
Start Research
View Initial Research Report

===== PAGE 38 =====
It appears there's a persistent issue with accessing the deep
research tool. Unfortunately, without the ability to conduct
deep research through the tool, I can't provide a detailed
structured report at the moment.
However, I can suggest a general strategy to gather
information on the latest developments of large language
models in Alzheimer's research:
1. Academic Journals and Conference Proceedings: Check
platforms like PubMed, IEEE Xplore, and Google Scholar for
recent papers on machine learning and Alzheimer's.
2. Research Institutes: Review publications and press
releases from leading research institutes focused on
neuroscience and artificial intelligence.
3. Tech Industry Reports: Stay updated with reports from
technology companies and think tanks that specialize in AI
healthcare solutions.
4. Clinical Trials: Examine the ClinicalTrials.gov database for
any ongoing trials involving large language models and
Alzheimer's disease.
5. News Outlets: Follow reputable medical and technology
news sites for articles on breakthroughs and new studies.
If you have access to any of these or specific queries, I could
help guide you on how to find the information manually!
Download Report
P o w e re d  b y  A G 2 / A u to G e n  S w a rm  a n d  F ire c ra w l

===== PAGE 39 =====


===== PAGE 40 =====
🧠  Alzheimer’s
Multimodal Agent
(Gemini + Agno)
A n a ly z e  A lz h e im e r ’ s - re la te d  im a g e s ,  a u d io ,  a n d  o p tio n a l v id e o ;  a d d  liv e  w e b
c o n te x t v ia  D u c k D u c k G o .
Inputs
Image URL (or leave blank and
upload below)
https://www.alzheimers.org.u
Upload an image (png/jpg)Drag
and
drop
file
here
L…
Browse files
HE-AA4… 94.5KB
Upload an audio file (mp3/wav)Drag
and
drop
file
here
L…
Browse files
Upload a video (mp4) — optionalDrag
and
drop
file
here
L…
Browse files
Research Focus & Guidance
Audience
Clinician/Staﬀ
Focus areas (optional)
Driving & safety Legal/financial p…
🔐  Google AI Studio
GOOGLE_API_KEY
••••••••••••••••••••••••••
⚙  Model
Gemini model
gemini-2.0-flash-exp
Medical Disclaimer
This tool is educational
and not medical advice.
It does not diagnose or
prescribe. For urgent
concerns, call 911 or
your local emergency
number. Always consult
licensed clinicians.

===== PAGE 41 =====
Nutrition & activ…
Prefer reputable medical sources (NIH/NIA, alz.org, WHO, Mayo
Clinic, etc.)
Task guidance / prompt (you can customize):
You are assisting with an Alzheimer’s-related question.
Summarize what the provided media show and extract
practical, **non-diagnostic** guidance.
Produce a caregiver-friendly brief with:
1) What the media suggest (plain language)
2) Practical tips (routines, communication, environment,
safety)
▶  Generate Alzheimer’s Brief
Using Gemini model: gemini-2.0-flash-exp
Alzheimer’s Brief
Here's a caregiver's brief based on the image provided:
1. What the image suggests:
The image shows brain scans. The top row represents a "normal"
brain, while the bottom row depicts a brain with amyloid plaques,
which are associated with Alzheimer's disease. The colored areas
likely represent activity levels or the presence of certain substances
in the brain. The scans with plaques show a diﬀerent pattern
compared to the normal brain.
2. Practical tips for caregivers:
Routines: Maintain a consistent daily schedule for meals,
activities, and sleep. This can reduce confusion and anxiety.
Communication: Use clear, simple language. Speak slowly and
calmly. Use visual cues and gestures.
Environment: Create a safe, uncluttered living space. Reduce
noise and distractions. Good lighting can also help.

===== PAGE 42 =====
Safety:
Install grab bars in bathrooms.
Remove tripping hazards like loose rugs.
Ensure adequate lighting, especially at night.
Consider a medical alert system.
3. Evidence-informed guidance (non-pharmacologic first):
Activities: Encourage participation in enjoyable and stimulating
activities, such as music, art, or gentle exercise.
Cognitive Stimulation: Engage in activities that challenge the
mind, like puzzles or reminiscing about past events.
Social Interaction: Maintain social connections with family and
friends.
Wandering: If wandering is an issue:
Ensure they have identification.
Inform neighbors and local authorities.
Consider GPS tracking devices.
4. Escalation red-flags:
Acute Confusion: Sudden changes in mental status.
New Neurological Deficits: Weakness, numbness, diﬀiculty
speaking.
Severe Agitation or Injuries: Aggressive behavior, falls, or other
injuries.
Dehydration: Signs include dry mouth, decreased urination.
Repeated Unsafe Wandering: Leaving the home and getting
lost.
When to contact clinicians or emergency services: If you observe
any of the red-flag symptoms, contact the person's doctor
immediately. For emergencies like severe injuries or acute changes
in condition, call emergency services.
5. Reputable resources:
Alzheimer's Association: alz.org
National Institute on Aging (NIA): nia.nih.gov

===== PAGE 43 =====
Alzheimer's Disease Education and Referral (ADEAR) Center:
alzheimers.gov
Mayo Clinic: mayoclinic.org
6. Short References (if web search provides them): I am unable to
provide specific references without performing a web search.
Done.

===== PAGE 44 =====
🧠  Alzheimer’s
Multimodal Agent
(Gemini + Agno)
A n a ly z e  A lz h e im e r ’ s - re la te d  im a g e s ,  a u d io ,  a n d  o p tio n a l v id e o ;  a d d  liv e  w e b
c o n te x t v ia  D u c k D u c k G o .
Inputs
Image URL (or leave blank and
upload below)
https://my.clevelandclinic.org
Upload an image (png/jpg)Drag
and
drop
file
here
L…
Browse files
brain-… 146.0KB
Upload an audio file (mp3/wav)Drag
and
drop
file
here
L…
Browse files
Upload a video (mp4) — optionalDrag
and
drop
file
here
L…
Browse files
200033… 4.7MB
Research Focus & Guidance
Audience
Caregiver
Focus areas (optional)
Home safety & w…
🔐  Google AI Studio
GOOGLE_API_KEY
••••••••••••••••••••••••••
⚙  Model
Gemini model
gemini-2.0-flash-exp
Medical Disclaimer
This tool is educational
and not medical advice.
It does not diagnose or
prescribe. For urgent
concerns, call 911 or
your local emergency
number. Always consult
licensed clinicians.

===== PAGE 45 =====
Prefer reputable medical sources (NIH/NIA, alz.org, WHO, Mayo
Clinic, etc.)
Task guidance / prompt (you can customize):
You are assisting with an Alzheimer’s-related question.
Summarize what the provided media show and extract
practical, **non-diagnostic** guidance.
Produce a caregiver-friendly brief with:
1) What the media suggest (plain language)
2) Practical tips (routines, communication, environment,
safety)
▶  Generate Alzheimer’s Brief
Using Gemini model: gemini-2.0-flash-exp
Alzheimer’s Brief
Okay, here is some caregiver-friendly information about Alzheimer's
disease based on the media you provided.
What the Media Suggests: The media explains that Alzheimer's
disease is associated with the formation of abnormal clusters of
protein fragments called plaques and twisted strands of another
protein called neurofibrillary tangles in the brain. These plaques
and tangles appear to disrupt the normal function of nerve cells and
cause them to disconnect from each other.
Practical Tips for Caregivers:
Establish Routines: Consistent daily routines can minimize
confusion and anxiety. This includes set times for meals,
bathing, dressing, and bedtime.
Simplify Communication:
Speak clearly and slowly, using simple sentences.
Maintain eye contact and use a calm, reassuring tone.
Avoid complex instructions or asking too many questions at
once.

===== PAGE 46 =====
Modify the Environment:
Ensure the home is well-lit, safe, and free of clutter.
Use visual cues such as labels or signs to help with
orientation.
Consider installing safety devices such as grab bars in
bathrooms and handrails in hallways.
Enhance Safety to Prevent Wandering:
Install secure locks on doors and windows.
Consider using alarms or monitoring devices to alert you if
the person leaves the house unsupervised.
Ensure the individual always carries identification with
contact information.
Evidence-Informed Guidance: Non-pharmacologic strategies
should be the first approach. In addition to the tips above, consider
the following:
Cognitive Stimulation: Engage the person in activities that
stimulate their mind, such as puzzles, memory games, or
reminiscing about past experiences.
Physical Activity: Regular exercise can improve mood, sleep,
and overall health.
Music Therapy: Playing familiar music can evoke positive
emotions and memories.
When to Contact Clinicians or Emergency Services:
Escalation Red-Flags: Seek immediate medical attention if the
person experiences any of the following:
Sudden changes in mental status or behavior
New neurological deficits (e.g., weakness, diﬀiculty
speaking)
Severe agitation or aggression
Injuries from falls or other accidents
Dehydration or refusal to eat/drink
Repeated unsafe wandering
Reputable Resources:

===== PAGE 47 =====
National Institute on Aging (NIA): Provides comprehensive
information about Alzheimer's disease and related dementias.
(nia.nih.gov)
Alzheimer's Association: Oﬀers support, education, and
advocacy for individuals and families aﬀected by Alzheimer's
disease. (alz.org)
Alzheimer's Disease Education and Referral (ADEAR) Center: A
service of the National Institute on Aging. (alzheimers.gov)
Mayo Clinic: Provides reliable medical information and
resources. (mayoclinic.org)
I hope this information is helpful. Please remember that I am not a
medical professional, and it is essential to consult with licensed
clinicians for accurate diagnosis and treatment recommendations.
Done.

===== PAGE 48 =====
🧠  Chat with Alzheimer’s PDFs
Pow ered by em bedchain +  Chrom a +  O penAI —  for educational use only
Add Alzheimer’s PDFs to your Knowledge Base
U pload caregiver guides, clinical guidelines, safety checklists, etc.
Upload one or more PDFs
Drag and drop files here
Limit 200MB per file • PDF
 Browse files
s41591-025-03605-x.pdf6.2MB
Added s41591-025-03605-x.pdf to the knowledge base.
Chat
Tip : Ask about behavior strategies ( sundow ning, agitation ) , safety planning ( w andering prevention ) , caregiver support, or explainers
( diagnostic w orkup , non - pharm acologic approaches) . The m odel should answ er using your uploaded PDF s and include citations.
Optional brief context (kept with your question)
e.g., Person is in early-stage dementia, lives with spouse, recent sleep issues and agitation.
Ask a question about your Alzheimer’s PDFs
summarize the main results of this work
Send
 Try an example
summarize the main results of this work
Configuration
OpenAI API Key
••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Create an API key in your O penAI
dashboard .
Knowledge Base
KB path:
/tmp/embedchain_kb_mrmncnk
x
🗑  Reset
KB
🧹  Clear
Chat
Audience & Style
Answer for:
Caregiver
Citations:
Inline [#] with file…
Important SafetyInformation
This assistant provideseducational informationaboutAlzheimer’s/dementiabased on the PDFs youupload. It is not amedical diagnosis ortreatment plan. Alwaysconsult licensedclinicians. Emergencies:call 911.

===== PAGE 49 =====
Summary of Main Results
Individual Clinical Profiles: Emphasized the importance of tailoringcounselling, care, and interventions based on individual clinical profiles incommunity settings.
Blood-Based Biomarkers: Discussed advancements in blood-basedbiomarkers for Alzheimer’s disease, highlighting their potential for clinicalapplication and future healthcare integration.
Diagnosis of Early Alzheimer’s: Provided insights into the clinical practicesfor diagnosing early Alzheimer’s disease, focusing on updated methodologiesand approaches.
Future Directions: Suggested the need for ongoing research anddevelopment in the field to enhance diagnostic accuracy and treatmentstrategies.
For further details, you may refer to the original sources for comprehensiveinformation.

===== PAGE 50 =====
🧠  Chat with Alzheimer’s PDFs
Pow ered by em bedchain +  Chrom a +  O penAI —  for educational use only
Add Alzheimer’s PDFs to your Knowledge Base
U pload caregiver guides, clinical guidelines, safety checklists, etc.
Upload one or more PDFs
Drag and drop files here
Limit 200MB per file • PDF
 Browse files
antioxidants-13-00651-v2.pdf7.1MB
Added antioxidants-13-00651-v2.pdf to the knowledge base.
Chat
Tip : Ask about behavior strategies (sundow ning, agitation ) , safety planning (w andering prevention ) , caregiver support, or explainers
(diagnostic w orkup , non - pharm acologic approaches) . The m odel should answ er using your uploaded PDF s and include citations.
Optional brief context (kept with your question)
e.g., Person is in early-stage dementia, lives with spouse, recent sleep issues and agitation.
Ask a question about your Alzheimer’s PDFs
Please list out the results of this work
Send
 Try an example
Please list out the results of this work
Configuration
OpenAI API Key
••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Create an API key in your O penAI
dashboard .
Knowledge Base
KB path:
/tmp/embedchain_kb_kc76bk3
2
🗑  Reset
KB
🧹  Clear
Chat
Audience & Style
Answer for:
Clinician/Staﬀ
Citations:
End of answer (bu…
Important SafetyInformation
This assistant provideseducational informationaboutAlzheimer’s/dementiabased on the PDFs youupload. It is not amedical diagnosis ortreatment plan. Alwaysconsult licensedclinicians. Emergencies:call 911.

===== PAGE 51 =====
Results of the Ginkgo Evaluation of Memory Study (GEMS)
Study Duration: 8.5 years
Participants: 2840 individuals aged 75 and older
2381 classified as cognitively normal
450 with mild cognitive impairment
Key Findings:
Plasma Levels of Beta-Amyloid:
Higher levels of Aβ1-40 and Aβ1-42 were associated with:
Age
Gender (predominantly women)
Low education levels
History of stroke
Hypertension
Creatinine levels
Comparison of Dementia Status:
Normal subjects with dementia exhibited:
Lower levels of Aβ1-42
Lower Aβ1-42/Aβ1-40 ratios compared to those withoutdementia
These findings suggest a correlation between beta-amyloid levels and variousdemographic and health factors, which may be relevant in understanding dementiarisk and cognitive decline in the elderly.
[#1] Antioxidants 2024, 13, 651

===== PAGE 52 =====


===== PAGE 53 =====
🧠  Alzheimer’s
Research & Care
Agent
Powered by OpenAI Agents SDK
Medical Disclaimer
This app is educational and not medical advice or diagnosis.
For urgent concerns (injury, acute confusion, new neurologic
deficits, severe agitation), call emergency services.
This app runs a multi-agent workflow specialized for dementia care:
Triage → Research → Edit. It performs web search, collects key facts
from reputable medical sources, and generates a caregiver-friendly
Markdown brief with references.
Research ProcessReport
🔍  Triage Agent: Planning research approach...
📋  Research Plan:
{
:
[
]
[
" t o p i c "
"Managing agitation and sundowning at home"
" s e a r c h _ q u e r i e s " :
0 :
"Alzheimer’s research: Managing agitation and
sundowning at home (site:nia.nih.gov OR
site:alz.org)"
" f o c u s _ a r e a s " :
API Configuration
OpenAI API Key
••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Research Topic
Enter an Alzheimer’s-related
topic:
Managing agitation and su
Use Topic
Example Topics
(Alzheimer’s)
Managing agitation and
sundowning at home
What evaluations are
typical when memory
loss is first noticed?
Home safety and
wandering prevention
strategies
Non-pharmacologic
approaches for sleep

===== PAGE 54 =====
]
}
0 :
"Key caregiver concerns about Managing
agitation and sundowning at home"
📝  Editor Agent: Creating comprehensive report...
✅  Research Complete! Report Generated.
📄  Report Preview:
Executive Summary
Agitation and sundowning are common symptoms in
Alzheimer's patients, particularly during late afternoon and
evening hours.
Caregivers can significantly improve quality of life by
understanding triggers and implementing eﬀective strategies.
Key management strateg...
See the Report tab for the full document.
Start Alzheimer’s Research

===== PAGE 55 =====
🧠  Alzheimer’s
Research & Care
Agent
Powered by OpenAI Agents SDK
Medical Disclaimer
This app is educational and not medical advice or diagnosis.
For urgent concerns (injury, acute confusion, new neurologic
deficits, severe agitation), call emergency services.
This app runs a multi-agent workflow specialized for dementia care:
Triage → Research → Edit. It performs web search, collects key facts
from reputable medical sources, and generates a caregiver-friendly
Markdown brief with references.
Research ProcessReport
Report Outline
1. Executive Summary
2. Understanding Agitation and Sundowning
3. Caregiver Strategies for Management
4. Communication Techniques
5. Support Resources for Caregivers
6. Conclusion
API Configuration
OpenAI API Key
••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Research Topic
Enter an Alzheimer’s-related
topic:
Managing agitation and su
Use Topic
Example Topics
(Alzheimer’s)
Managing agitation and
sundowning at home
What evaluations are
typical when memory
loss is first noticed?
Home safety and
wandering prevention
strategies
Non-pharmacologic
approaches for sleep

===== PAGE 56 =====
7. References
Word Count: 1011
Executive Summary
Agitation and sundowning are common symptoms in
Alzheimer's patients, particularly during late afternoon and
evening hours.
Caregivers can significantly improve quality of life by
understanding triggers and implementing eﬀective strategies.
Key management strategies include establishing routines,
creating a calming environment, using appropriate
communication techniques, and seeking support when needed.
Understanding Agitation and
Sundowning
Agitation refers to restlessness, anxiety, or aggression that can
occur in Alzheimer's patients. Sundowning, a term describing the
increased confusion that happens during the late afternoon and
evening, can result in more intense symptoms, such as emotional
distress, wandering, or sleep disturbances. Factors like fatigue,
lower light levels, unfamiliar environments, and disruptions to the
body’s internal clock contribute to these behavioral changes and
can significantly impact caregiving.
Caregiver Strategies for
Management
1. Establish a Consistent Routine
Routine helps create familiarity and security, reducing
anxiety.
2. Create a Calm Environment

===== PAGE 57 =====
Minimize noise, ensure comfortable lighting, and remove
potential distractions.
3. Monitor Physical Comfort
Regularly check for basic needs like hunger, thirst, or
restroom use, as discomfort may lead to agitation.
4. Engage in Soothing Activities
Activities like listening to soft music or gentle exercises can
reduce restlessness.
5. Encourage Physical Activity
Regular exercise promotes better sleep and reduces
agitation.
6. Limit Stimulants
Avoid caﬀeine or alcohol, especially later in the day, as they
can influence sleep patterns negatively.
7. Ensure Adequate Lighting
Use nightlights to reduce confusion and fear associated with
darkness.
8. Limit Daytime Napping
While rest is important, prolonged naps can lead to
nighttime wakefulness.
Communication Techniques
Use Calm and Reassuring Language
Maintain a positive and soothing tone. Approach with
patience.
Avoid Confrontation
If the person expresses distress or confusion, oﬀer
comforting responses rather than logic or correction.
Redirect Attention

===== PAGE 58 =====
Gently guide the individual towards a diﬀerent activity or
topic to diﬀuse tension.
Support Resources for Caregivers
Join Support Communities
Online forums like ALZConnected can provide valuable peer
support.
Consult Healthcare Professionals
Discuss concerns with a healthcare provider to address
underlying issues or explore other interventions.
Conclusion
Caring for someone with Alzheimer's who experiences agitation and
sundowning can be challenging, yet proactive management can
lead to improved well-being. Through consistent routines, a
calming environment, eﬀective communication, and a supportive
network, caregivers can navigate the complexities of these
behaviors with confidence.
References
Alzheimer’s Association
National Institute on Aging
Mayo Clinic
Disclaimer: This report is intended for informational purposes only
and should not substitute professional medical advice. Always
discuss with a healthcare provider before making any changes
related to care practices or medications.
References & Resources
Download Report

===== PAGE 59 =====
Start Alzheimer’s Research

===== PAGE 60 =====
🧠  Alzheimer’s
Research & Care
Agent
Powered by OpenAI Agents SDK
Medical Disclaimer
This app is educational and not medical advice or diagnosis.
For urgent concerns (injury, acute confusion, new neurologic
deficits, severe agitation), call emergency services.
This app runs a multi-agent workflow specialized for dementia care:
Triage → Research → Edit. It performs web search, collects key facts
from reputable medical sources, and generates a caregiver-friendly
Markdown brief with references.
Research ProcessReport
🔍  Triage Agent: Planning research approach...
📋  Research Plan:
{
:
[
" t o p i c "
"Evaluations Typically Conducted When Memory Loss
is First Noticed in Alzheimer's Patients"
" s e a r c h _ q u e r i e s " :
0 :
"memory loss evaluations site:nia.nih.gov"
1 :
"diagnostic criteria for Alzheimer's
site:alz.org"
Research Topic
Enter an Alzheimer’s-related
topic:
What evaluations are typic
Use Topic
Example Topics
(Alzheimer’s)
Managing agitation and
sundowning at home
What evaluations are
typical when memory
loss is first noticed?
Home safety and
wandering prevention
strategies
Non-pharmacologic
approaches for sleep
problems in dementia
Caregiver burnout:
respite options and
support resources
Overview of
cholinesterase inhibitors

===== PAGE 61 =====
]
[
]
}
2 :
"cognitive assessments for dementia
site:mayoclinic.org"
3 :
"memory loss initial assessments
site:who.int"
4 :
"Alzheimer's disease evaluation process
site:alzheimers.gov"
" f o c u s _ a r e a s " :
0 :
"Types of evaluations used in early
diagnosis"
1 :
"Common assessments and tests for memory
loss"
2 :
"Role of healthcare providers in evaluations"
3 :
"Importance of early detection and
intervention"
4 :
"Caregiver resources and support during
evaluation"
📝  Editor Agent: Creating comprehensive report...
✅  Research Complete! Report Generated.
📄  Report Preview:
Evaluations Typically
Conducted When
Memory Loss is First

===== PAGE 62 =====
Noticed in Alzheimer's
Patients
Executive Summary
Early Detection is Crucial: Identifying memory loss early can
lead to timely interventions that may improve quality of life.
Standard Evaluations Include: A detailed medica...
See the Report tab for the full document.
Start Alzheimer’s Research

===== PAGE 63 =====
🧠  Alzheimer’s
Research & Care
Agent
Powered by OpenAI Agents SDK
Medical Disclaimer
This app is educational and not medical advice or diagnosis.
For urgent concerns (injury, acute confusion, new neurologic
deficits, severe agitation), call emergency services.
This app runs a multi-agent workflow specialized for dementia care:
Triage → Research → Edit. It performs web search, collects key facts
from reputable medical sources, and generates a caregiver-friendly
Markdown brief with references.
Research ProcessReport
Report Outline
1. Executive Summary
2. Evidence Review
3. Practical Care Tips
4. Non-pharmacologic Strategies; then Medications
5. Red Flags & When to Seek Care
6. Resources & Helplines
Research Topic
Enter an Alzheimer’s-related
topic:
What evaluations are typic
Use Topic
Example Topics
(Alzheimer’s)
Managing agitation and
sundowning at home
What evaluations are
typical when memory
loss is first noticed?
Home safety and
wandering prevention
strategies
Non-pharmacologic
approaches for sleep
problems in dementia
Caregiver burnout:
respite options and
support resources
Overview of
cholinesterase inhibitors

===== PAGE 64 =====
7. References
Word Count: 1089
Evaluations Typically
Conducted When
Memory Loss is First
Noticed in Alzheimer's
Patients
Executive Summary
Early Detection is Crucial: Identifying memory loss early can
lead to timely interventions that may improve quality of life.
Standard Evaluations Include: A detailed medical history,
cognitive assessments, and physical examinations.
Healthcare Providers: Physicians, neurologists, and geriatric
specialists often lead the evaluation process.
Innovative Tools: Evaluation may involve neurologic imaging
and neuropsychological tests to deepen understanding.
Support Resources: Caregivers are encouraged to seek support
from organizations like the Alzheimer’s Association and the NIA.
Evidence Review
Memory loss is often one of the first symptoms indicating the
possibility of Alzheimer’s disease or another type of dementia. Early
evaluations typically consist of multiple components to thoroughly
assess cognitive decline and rule out other conditions.

===== PAGE 65 =====
According to the Alzheimer's Association, early evaluations should
help diﬀerentiate between normal age-related memory loss and
dementia-related changes. The National Institute on Aging (NIA)
highlights an approach that includes:
1. Medical History: Gathering comprehensive information about
the individual's overall health, including any existing medical
conditions and medications, is crucial. Providers need to
understand any changes in behavior, memory, or mood.
2. Cognitive Testing: Standardized tests, such as the Mini-Mental
State Examination (MMSE) or the Montreal Cognitive Assessment
(MoCA), help assess various cognitive functions, including
memory, attention, language, and problem-solving abilities.
3. Physical Exam: A thorough exam can help rule out other
underlying issues that might contribute to memory loss, such as
hypertension or diabetes.
4. Neurologic Exam: This involves checking reflexes, coordination,
and sensory perception, ensuring that physical health does not
contribute to cognitive decline.
5. Laboratory Tests: Blood tests can identify criteria such as
vitamin deficiencies or thyroid problems, which may exacerbate
memory issues.
6. Neuroimaging: When appropriate, images from MRI or CT scans
may assist in identifying structural brain changes associated
with Alzheimer’s. Such imaging helps evaluate brain health
compared to normative data.
This multifaceted approach ensures a comprehensive
understanding of the patient's cognitive health and directs to
potential interventions or referrals for further specialized
assessment.
Practical Care Tips
As caregivers, being proactive during the evaluation process is
crucial. Here are practical strategies to manage care during this
time:

===== PAGE 66 =====
1. Establish Routines
Routine can provide consistency and security for the individual
experiencing memory loss. Establish daily schedules for meals,
exercise, and personal care activities to create a reliable
environment.
2. Enhance the Environment
Creating a supportive living environment can minimize confusion
and promote independence. Simple changes include:
Labeling Rooms and Objects: Use clear labels for essential
rooms and frequently used items to aid memory.
Reducing Clutter: A tidy environment can help ease anxiety and
cognitive overload.
Simplifying Lights and Appliances: Use basic switches or
remotes to decrease complexity in daily interactions with
technology.
3. Effective Communication
Open and patient communication is vital. Tips include:
Use Simple Language: Encourage conversations using clear,
straightforward words.
Break Down Information: Provide one instruction at a time to
minimize confusion.
Clarify and Repeat: If the individual does not understand, gently
restate information or ask questions.
4. Ensure Safety
Memory loss can increase safety risks; hence:
Monitor Mobility: Be aware of potential fall risks, especially if
they exhibit disorientation. Consider home modifications, like
grab bars or clear walkways.

===== PAGE 67 =====
Evaluate Driving: Assess whether it remains safe for them to
drive and explore alternative transportation options if
necessary.
Non-pharmacologic
Strategies; then
Medications
Before considering medications, engaging in non-pharmacological
strategies might be beneficial:
Cognitive Stimulation Therapy: Activities designed to
encourage mental engagement can enhance cognitive function
and emotional well-being.
Physical Activity: Regular exercise can improve mood and
cognitive function, making daily involvement in physical
activities essential.
Social Engagement: Connecting with others through groups or
activities can provide emotional support and alleviate feelings
of isolation.
Medications
In instances where symptoms significantly impair daily function,
healthcare providers may discuss medications to address specific
symptoms:
Cholinesterase Inhibitors: Commonly prescribed to help slow
cognitive decline in some forms of dementia.
NMDA Receptor Antagonist: Sometimes utilized for moderate to
severe Alzheimer’s to improve memory and cognitive function.
It’s important to consider that medications can have side eﬀects
and that their eﬀicacy may vary among individuals. Engaging in
discussions with medical providers about risks, benefits, and
available options is critical when navigating this aspect of care.

===== PAGE 68 =====
Red Flags & When to Seek
Care
While evaluating memory loss, certain signs indicate the need for
urgent medical attention:
Acute Confusion: Sudden severe changes in cognitive function
require evaluation.
Injuries: Experiences involving falls or accidents raise concerns
of safety.
Dehydration Symptoms: Look for signs like reduced urine
output and confusion.
New Neurological Deficits: Symptoms such as weakness,
numbness, or speech diﬀiculties indicate a potentially severe
underlying condition.
When observing these red flags, reach out to healthcare providers
promptly for evaluation and guidance.
Resources & Helplines
During this challenging journey, support is vital. The following
resources can oﬀer assistance:
National Institute on Aging (NIA): NIA Alzheimer's Information
Alzheimer’s Association: Alzheimer's Association
Local Services: Check for local Alzheimer’s caregiver support
services, often available through hospitals or community
centers.
References
1. National Institute on Aging. (n.d.). Alzheimer's Disease: A
Caregiver's Guide. Retrieved from nia.nih.gov

===== PAGE 69 =====
2. Alzheimer’s Association. (n.d.). A Guide for Alzheimer's
Caregivers. Retrieved from alz.org
3. Mayo Clinic. (n.d.). Symptoms and Causes of Alzheimer’s
Disease. Retrieved from mayoclinic.org
4. World Health Organization. (n.d.). Dementia: A Public Health
Priority. Retrieved from who.int
5. Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative. (n.d.). Overview of
Evaluation Methods. Retrieved from adni.loni.usc.edu
This report aims to provide caregivers with a supportive
understanding of evaluations associated with memory loss and how
to navigate the early phase of Alzheimer’s care eﬀectively.
Remember, caregivers are crucial in advocating for their loved ones,
and understanding these processes empowers better care.
References & Resources
Download Report
Start Alzheimer’s Research

===== PAGE 70 =====
🧠  Alzheimer’s
Research & Care
Agent
Powered by OpenAI Agents SDK
Medical Disclaimer
This app is educational and not medical advice or diagnosis.
For urgent concerns (injury, acute confusion, new neurologic
deficits, severe agitation), call emergency services.
This app runs a multi-agent workflow specialized for dementia care:
Triage → Research → Edit. It performs web search, collects key facts
from reputable medical sources, and generates a caregiver-friendly
Markdown brief with references.
Research ProcessReport
🔍  Triage Agent: Planning research approach...
📋  Research Plan:
{
:
[
" t o p i c "
"Non-Pharmacologic Approaches for Sleep Problems
in Dementia"
" s e a r c h _ q u e r i e s " :
0 :
"Non-pharmacologic interventions for sleep in
dementia site:nia.nih.gov"
API Configuration
OpenAI API Key
••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Research Topic
Enter an Alzheimer’s-related
topic:
Non-pharmacologic appro
Use Topic
Example Topics
(Alzheimer’s)
Managing agitation and
sundowning at home
What evaluations are
typical when memory
loss is first noticed?
Home safety and
wandering prevention
strategies
Non-pharmacologic
approaches for sleep

===== PAGE 71 =====
]
[
]
}
1 :
"Sleep disturbances in Alzheimer's caregivers
strategies site:alz.org"
2 :
"Non-drug therapies for dementia sleep issues
site:mayoclinic.org"
3 :
"Behavioral strategies for improving sleep in
dementia site:who.int"
4 :
"Natural remedies for sleep problems in
Alzheimer's patients site:alzheimers.gov"
" f o c u s _ a r e a s " :
0 :
"Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia
(CBT-I)"
1 :
"Environmental modifications for better
sleep"
2 :
"Sleep hygiene education for caregivers"
3 :
"Mindfulness and relaxation techniques"
4 :
"Role of diet and exercise in sleep quality"
📝  Editor Agent: Creating comprehensive report...
✅  Research Complete! Report Generated.
📄  Report Preview:
Non-Pharmacologic
Approaches for

===== PAGE 72 =====
Sleep Problems in
Dementia
Executive Summary
Sleep Disturbances Common: Individuals with dementia often
experience sleep problems, impacting both the individual and
their caregiver.
Non-Pharmacologic Interventions: Strategies like
environmental adju...
See the Report tab for the full document.
Start Alzheimer’s Research

===== PAGE 73 =====
🧠  Alzheimer’s
Research & Care
Agent
Powered by OpenAI Agents SDK
Medical Disclaimer
This app is educational and not medical advice or diagnosis.
For urgent concerns (injury, acute confusion, new neurologic
deficits, severe agitation), call emergency services.
This app runs a multi-agent workflow specialized for dementia care:
Triage → Research → Edit. It performs web search, collects key facts
from reputable medical sources, and generates a caregiver-friendly
Markdown brief with references.
Research ProcessReport
Report Outline
1. Executive Summary
2. Evidence Review
3. Practical Care Tips
4. Non-Pharmacologic Strategies First; then Medications
5. Red-Flags & When to Seek Care
6. Resources & Helplines
API Configuration
OpenAI API Key
••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Research Topic
Enter an Alzheimer’s-related
topic:
Non-pharmacologic appro
Use Topic
Example Topics
(Alzheimer’s)
Managing agitation and
sundowning at home
What evaluations are
typical when memory
loss is first noticed?
Home safety and
wandering prevention
strategies
Non-pharmacologic
approaches for sleep

===== PAGE 74 =====
7. References
Word Count: 1081
Non-Pharmacologic
Approaches for
Sleep Problems in
Dementia
Executive Summary
Sleep Disturbances Common: Individuals with dementia often
experience sleep problems, impacting both the individual and
their caregiver.
Non-Pharmacologic Interventions: Strategies like
environmental adjustments and cognitive behavioral therapy
have shown eﬀicacy without the side eﬀects associated with
medications.
Practical Application: Simple adjustments in daily routines,
sleep hygiene, and creating a calming environment can
significantly improve sleep quality.
Continual Assessment Needed: Caregivers should monitor
changes and adjust strategies accordingly, with a keen sense for
potential red flags that require professional help.
Support Resources: Various organizations oﬀer guidance and
support for caregivers dealing with sleep issues related to
dementia.
Evidence Review

===== PAGE 75 =====
Sleep disturbances are prevalent in individuals with dementia,
including Alzheimer's disease, presenting as insomnia, nighttime
awakenings, and daytime sleepiness. Research indicates that these
disturbances can stem from neurobiological changes associated
with dementia, altered circadian rhythms, and environmental
factors. Non-pharmacologic strategies have gained support for
managing sleep issues eﬀectively:
1. Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia (CBT-I): Several
studies highlight the eﬀectiveness of CBT-I in improving sleep
quality in older adults, including those with cognitive
impairments.
According to the National Institute on Aging (NIA), CBT-I
focuses on identifying negative thoughts about sleep and
replacing them with positive ones.
2. Environmental Modifications: A systematic review found that
optimizing the sleep environment (e.g., reduced noise levels,
comfortable bedding, appropriate lighting) significantly aids in
improving sleep quality.
Ensuring a cool, dark, and quiet room can facilitate better
sleep patterns.
3. Sleep Hygiene Education: Education on maintaining good sleep
hygiene is essential. Practices like consistent sleep schedules,
avoidance of caﬀeine and heavy meals before bed, and
establishing bedtime rituals can enhance sleep quality.
4. Mindfulness and Relaxation Techniques: Research shows that
relaxation techniques can help manage anxiety and improve
overall sleep quality. Techniques include meditation, deep
breathing exercises, and gentle yoga.
5. Diet and Exercise: Diet influences sleep quality; for instance,
foods rich in tryptophan can promote sleep. Regular physical
activity also significantly contributes to improved sleep,
although it's best to avoid vigorous exercises close to bedtime.

===== PAGE 76 =====
Practical Care Tips
Establishing Routines
Consistent Schedule: Encourage adherence to regular sleep and
wake times, even on weekends. Consistency helps regulate the
body’s internal clock.
Bedtime Rituals: Create a calming pre-sleep routine, like
reading, playing soft music, or engaging in gentle stretching
activities. This signals the body that it's time to wind down.
Modifying the Environment
Comfortable Sleeping Space: Ensure the bedroom is quiet,
dark, and cool. Consider using blackout curtains, earplugs, or
white noise machines to reduce disruptive stimuli.
Comfortable Bedding: Assess the comfort of bedding and
pillows, ensuring they are adequate for the individual’s
preferences.
Enhancing Communication
Clear Communication: Use simple, clear communication and
maintain a calm demeanor, especially during evening
conversations. This helps reduce anxiety and confusion.
Emotional Reassurance: Provide reassurance about sleep and
encourage relaxation without pressure, creating a supportive
atmosphere.
Safety Precautions
Ensure a clutter-free sleeping area to minimize the risk of falls
during nighttime bathroom trips or when navigating the
bedroom.

===== PAGE 77 =====
Keep essential items within reach, including medications,
glasses, and water.
Non-Pharmacologic
Strategies First; then
Medications
Non-Pharmacologic Approaches
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia (CBT-I)
Focuses on modifying thoughts and behaviors associated
with sleeping problems.
Eﬀective for improving sleep in dementia patients without
medications.
Light Therapy: Exposure to bright light during the day can help
regulate circadian rhythms and improve sleep at night.
Mindfulness Meditation: Engaging in mindfulness can help
alleviate anxiety and improve overall sleep quality.
Medications (If Needed)
Individuals with dementia may sometimes require medications to
address sleep issues. However, it’s crucial to consider the following:
Potential Side Eﬀects: Many sleep medications can cause
sedation, cognitive impairment, or exacerbate confusion—
especially in older adults.
Collaborative Decision-Making: Always discuss with healthcare
professionals to weigh the benefits and risks before starting any
medication.
Periodic Review: If medications are prescribed, it’s vital to
regularly re-evaluate their eﬀectiveness and side eﬀects with a
healthcare provider.

===== PAGE 78 =====
Red-Flags & When to Seek
Care
While many sleep disturbances can be managed at home,
caregivers should be vigilant for the following red flags, indicating
the need for professional intervention:
Acute Confusion or Delirium: Sudden changes in behavior,
confusion, or disorientation may be signs of an underlying
health issue.
Injuries: If the individual falls or gets hurt during attempts to get
up at night, this requires immediate medical attention.
Dehydration: Signs of dehydration, such as dry mouth or skin,
may occur if an individual wakes frequently during the night.
New Neurological Deficits: Any evidence of significant cognitive
decline or new issues with memory, motor skills, or
communication should prompt a visit to a healthcare provider.
Resources & Helplines
National Institute on Aging (NIA): NIA Sleep and Aging provides
extensive resources on sleep issues in older adults.
Alzheimer’s Association: Alzheimer's Association oﬀers
numerous resources, including support groups and educational
materials.
Local Community Services: Many local agencies provide
caregiver support services, respite care, and dementia-specific
resources.
References
National Institute on Aging. (n.d.). Sleep and Aging. Retrieved
from https://www.nia.nih.gov

===== PAGE 79 =====
Alzheimer's Association. (n.d.). Caregiving. Retrieved from
https://www.alz.org
Mayo Clinic. (2022). Sleep Disorders in Dementia. Retrieved from
https://www.mayoclinic.org
World Health Organization. (2020). Sleep Problems: Guidance on
Sleep and Recovery. Retrieved from https://www.who.int
American Academy of Sleep Medicine. (n.d.). Cognitive
Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia. Retrieved from
https://aasm.org
References & Resources
Download Report
Start Alzheimer’s Research

===== PAGE 80 =====
🏥  Medical Imaging
Diagnosis Agent
Upload a medical image for AI-assisted analysis (educational use only).
Upload Medical Image
Drag and drop file here
Limit 200MB per file • JPG, JPEG, PNG, DICOM, DCM
 Browse files
3-alzheimers-brain-pasieka.jpg216.1KB
U p lo a d e d  M e d ic a l Im a g e
🔍  Analyze Image
📋  Analysis Results
Okay, I will analyze the image you provided.
ℹ  Configuration
API Key is configured
🔄  Reset API Key
This tool provides AI-
powered analysis of
medical imaging using
computer vision and
radiology-style
reasoning.
⚠  DISCLAIMER: For
educational/informatio
nal use only. Not
medical advice. Do not
make clinical decisions
based solely on this
output. Always consult
qualified healthcare
professionals.

===== PAGE 81 =====
1) Image Type & Region
Modality: Likely a coronal MRI or PET scan of the brain. The color overlay
suggests it may be a functional image highlighting brain activity or
metabolism.
Region: Brain.
Quality: The image quality is adequate for identifying major structural
features.
2) Key Findings
Primary Observations: There is a notable asymmetry between the left
and right hemispheres. The left hemisphere appears to have reduced
signal intensity (represented by blue/green/red color changes), which
might indicate decreased activity or metabolism compared to the right
hemisphere (predominantly blue).
Abnormalities/Artifacts: The color-coded representation highlights
regions of varying activity/metabolism. The asymmetry is the most
prominent abnormality.
Severity: The asymmetry appears moderate to severe, warranting further
investigation.
3) Diagnostic Assessment (Non-
diagnostic)
The observed asymmetry could be related to various conditions,
including:
Neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., Alzheimer's disease,
frontotemporal dementia)
Vascular events (e.g., stroke)
Focal brain lesions (e.g., tumor)
Given the asymmetry and possible involvement of the left hemisphere,
language and motor functions should be assessed.
Critical findings: The asymmetry should prompt urgent clinical attention
and correlation with the patient's symptoms and medical history.
4) Patient-Friendly Explanation

===== PAGE 82 =====
This image is a scan of your brain. It looks like one side of your brain shows a
diﬀerent pattern compared to the other side. The colors represent how active
diﬀerent parts of your brain are. The diﬀerences observed could be related to
several possible conditions. It's important to see a doctor for more tests to
figure out what's going on.
5) Research Context
Here's a summary of key takeaways from reputable resources:
Brain Asymmetry: Asymmetry in the brain can be associated with various
conditions, including neurodevelopmental disorders, language disorders,
and neurodegenerative diseases. (Wikipedia, NCBI)
Neuroimaging in Neurodegenerative Diseases: MRI and PET scans are
commonly used to identify patterns of brain atrophy or metabolic
changes associated with neurodegenerative diseases. (Radiopaedia.org,
PubMed Central)
Importance of Systematic Assessment: When assessing brain MRI for
neurodegenerative diseases, a careful and systematic approach is needed
to identify pertinent features. (Radiopaedia.org)
Important Note: This analysis is based solely on the provided image and
should not be considered a diagnosis. Clinical correlation with patient history
and physical examination is essential. Please consult with a qualified
healthcare professional for further evaluation.
N o te : T h is a n a ly sis is A I- g e n e ra te d  a n d  m u st b e re v ie w e d  b y  a  q u a lifie d  c lin ic ia n .

===== PAGE 83 =====
🏥  Medical Imaging
Diagnosis Agent
Upload a medical image for AI-assisted analysis (educational use only).
Upload Medical Image
Drag and drop file here
Limit 200MB per file • JPG, JPEG, PNG, DICOM, DCM
 Browse files
800wm.jpg132.7KB
U p lo a d e d  M e d ic a l Im a g e
🔍  Analyze Image
📋  Analysis Results
Okay, I will analyze the provided medical image.
ℹ  Configuration
API Key is configured
🔄  Reset API Key
This tool provides AI-
powered analysis of
medical imaging using
computer vision and
radiology-style
reasoning.
⚠  DISCLAIMER: For
educational/informatio
nal use only. Not
medical advice. Do not
make clinical decisions
based solely on this
output. Always consult
qualified healthcare
professionals.

===== PAGE 84 =====
1) Image Type & Region
Modality: Based on the characteristics of the image, it appears to be a
coronal view of an MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) scan of the brain.
The coloring is not typical for an MRI, suggesting it might be a special
sequence or has been processed for emphasis.
Region: The image shows the brain.
Image Quality: The image quality appears adequate for identifying major
anatomical structures. However, the unusual coloration may hinder
detailed assessment.
2) Key Findings
Primary Observations: A large, well-defined area of abnormal signal
intensity is present in the left hemisphere of the brain. It appears to aﬀect
a significant portion of the frontal lobe. The specific shape and location
suggest involvement of multiple brain regions.
Abnormalities/Artifacts: The highlighted area is very distinct and
represents a significant abnormality.
Severity: Qualitatively, the severity appears to be moderate to severe,
given the size and location of the abnormality.
3) Diagnostic Assessment (Non-
diagnostic)
Possible Considerations: Given the location and appearance, possible
considerations could include:
Stroke (Infarction): A large stroke could cause this pattern of damage.
Tumor: A slow-growing tumor might present similarly.
Demyelinating Disease: Although less typical, extensive
demyelination could be considered.
Encephalitis: Certain infections can cause inflammation and damage
of this extent.
Critical Findings: The size and location of this abnormality warrant
urgent clinical attention and further investigation to determine the
underlying cause.
4) Patient-Friendly Explanation

===== PAGE 85 =====
This image is from an MRI scan of your brain. We see a large area on the left
side that looks diﬀerent from the rest. It's like a significant change in that part
of your brain tissue. This could be due to several reasons, such as a blockage
of blood flow (like a stroke), a growth, or inflammation. Because of what we
see here, it's important to get more tests done quickly to figure out exactly
what's going on and how best to address it.
5) Research Context
I will use the DuckDuckGo search tool to find recent medical literature or
guidelines about similar patterns.
Research Context: Large Frontal Lobe
Lesions on MRI
Based on a quick search, here are some key takeaways regarding large frontal
lobe lesions:
Diﬀerential Diagnosis: A large lesion in the frontal lobe can have a broad
diﬀerential diagnosis, including neoplastic, vascular, inflammatory, and
infectious etiologies.
Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM): GBM is an aggressive primary brain
tumor that can present as a sizable lesion in the frontal lobe.
Eﬀects of Frontal Lobe Lesions: Frontal lobe lesions can aﬀect various
cognitive functions, including executive functions, working memory, and
attention.
Reputable Resources:
Given the limitations of the search, I would recommend exploring these
resources for more information:
1. Radiology Society of North America (RSNA): Provides information on
various imaging findings and conditions.
2. National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS): Oﬀers
information on stroke, brain tumors, and other neurological conditions.
3. Mayo Clinic: Provides patient-friendly information on a wide range of
medical topics.
Disclaimer: This analysis is for informational purposes only and should not
be considered a diagnosis or substitute for professional medical advice. A

===== PAGE 86 =====
qualified healthcare professional should evaluate the image and clinical
findings to determine the appropriate course of action.
N o te : T h is a n a ly sis is A I- g e n e ra te d  a n d  m u st b e re v ie w e d  b y  a  q u a lifie d  c lin ic ia n .

===== PAGE 87 =====
🕵️‍♂️  Alzheimer's Web
Scraping AI Agent
S c ra p e  a  w e b  p a g e  w ith  O p e n A I +  S c ra p e g ra p h A I.  In c lu d es  a  s tric t- J S O N
fa llb a c k  if p a rs in g  fa ils .
Target & Instructions
URL to scrape
https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/9164-alzheimers-
What should the agent extract?
Can Alzheimer's be treated? If yes, how?
Structured Output (Fallback
Schema)
JSON Schema (used only if SmartScraperGraph output can't be parsed)
{
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"title": {
"type": "string"
},
"author": {
"type": "string"
Scrape
SmartScraperGraph error: Failed to scrape after 1 attempts:
BrowserType.launch: Executable doesn't exist at
Configuration
OpenAI API Key
••••••••••••••••••••••••••
OpenAI model
gpt-4o-mini
gpt-4o
If y o u  s e e
O U T P U T _P A R S IN G _F A IL U R E ,  th is
a p p  w ill re try  w ith  a  s tric t J S O N
fa llb a c k .

===== PAGE 88 =====
/root/.cache/ms-playwright/chromium_headless_shell-
1181/chrome-linux/headless_shell
╔════════════════════════════════════
════════════════════════╗  ║  Looks like
Playwright was just installed or updated. ║  ║  Please run the
following command to download new browsers: ║  ║  ║  ║
playwright install ║  ║  ║  ║  <3 Playwright Team ║
╚════════════════════════════════════
════════════════════════╝
Fallback completed.
Strict JSON Fallback Output
{
:
[
" s u m m a r y "
"Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative
condition that affects memory, thinking, and
other cognitive functions. While there is no
cure, treatments can manage symptoms and slow
progression. Medications like cholinesterase
inhibitors, NMDA antagonists, and monoclonal
antibodies are used to manage symptoms and slow
the disease's progression. Clinical trials may
offer access to new treatments."
" k e y _ p o i n t s " :
0 :
"Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause
of dementia."
1 :
"There is no cure for Alzheimer's, but
treatments can manage symptoms."
2 :
"Cholinesterase inhibitors and NMDA
antagonists are common treatments."
3 :
"Monoclonal antibodies like lecanemab and
donanemab target amyloid proteins."

===== PAGE 89 =====
]
}
4 :
"Clinical trials may provide access to new
treatments."
Tips if results are incomplete: • Make the prompt VERY explicit
(list exact keys you need). • Simplify the schema to just the
fields you must have. • Some pages are
dynamic/authenticated; SmartScraper may need Playwright. If
so, install with: %pip install -q 'scrapegraphai[playwright]'
!python -m playwright install chromium

===== PAGE 90 =====
🕵️‍♂️  Alzheimer's Web
Scraping AI Agent
S c ra p e  a  w e b  p a g e  w ith  O p e n A I +  S c ra p e g ra p h A I.  In c lu d es  a  s tric t- J S O N
fa llb a c k  if p a rs in g  fa ils .
Target & Instructions
URL to scrape
https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/alzheimers-dise
What should the agent extract?
Tell me the causations of Alzheimer's disease.
Structured Output (Fallback
Schema)
JSON Schema (used only if SmartScraperGraph output can't be parsed)
{
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"title": {
"type": "string"
},
"author": {
"type": "string"
Scrape
SmartScraperGraph error: Failed to scrape after 1 attempts:
BrowserType.launch: Executable doesn't exist at
Configuration
OpenAI API Key
••••••••••••••••••••••••••
OpenAI model
gpt-4o-mini
gpt-4o
If y o u  s e e
O U T P U T _P A R S IN G _F A IL U R E ,  th is
a p p  w ill re try  w ith  a  s tric t J S O N
fa llb a c k .

===== PAGE 91 =====
/root/.cache/ms-playwright/chromium_headless_shell-
1181/chrome-linux/headless_shell
╔════════════════════════════════════
════════════════════════╗  ║  Looks like
Playwright was just installed or updated. ║  ║  Please run the
following command to download new browsers: ║  ║  ║  ║
playwright install ║  ║  ║  ║  <3 Playwright Team ║
╚════════════════════════════════════
════════════════════════╝
Fallback completed.
Strict JSON Fallback Output
{
:
[
" s u m m a r y "
"Alzheimer's disease is caused by a combination
of genetic, lifestyle, and environmental factors
that affect the brain over time. The disease is
characterized by the formation of amyloid plaques
and neurofibrillary tangles in the brain, which
disrupt the function of neurons, leading to their
damage and death. In less than 1% of cases,
specific genetic changes almost guarantee the
development of the disease. The damage often
starts in the memory region of the brain and
spreads in a predictable pattern, eventually
causing the brain to shrink."
" k e y _ p o i n t s " :
0 :
"Alzheimer's disease involves amyloid plaques
and tau protein tangles in the brain."
1 :
"The exact causes are not fully understood
but involve genetic, lifestyle, and
environmental factors."
2 :
"In less than 1% of cases, specific genetic
changes are responsible."

===== PAGE 92 =====
]
}
3 :
"The disease begins years before symptoms
appear, starting in the memory region of the
brain."
4 :
"By the late stage, the brain has
significantly shrunk."
Tips if results are incomplete: • Make the prompt VERY explicit
(list exact keys you need). • Simplify the schema to just the
fields you must have. • Some pages are
dynamic/authenticated; SmartScraper may need Playwright. If
so, install with: %pip install -q 'scrapegraphai[playwright]'
!python -m playwright install chromium