

===== PAGE 1 =====
nature medicine Volume 30 | August 2024 | 2121–2124 | 2121
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41591-024-02988-7
Comment
Revised criteria for the diagnosis and 
staging of Alzheimer’s disease
Clifford R. Jack Jr, Scott J. Andrews, Thomas G. Beach, Teresa Buracchio, Billy Dunn, 
Ana Graf, Oskar Hansson, Carole Ho, William Jagust, Eric McDade, Jose Luis Molinuevo, 
Ozioma C. Okonkwo, Luca Pani, Michael S. Rafii, Philip Scheltens, Eric Siemers, 
Heather M. Snyder, Reisa Sperling, Charlotte E. Teunissen & Maria C. Carrillo
Alzheimer’s disease can be treated by targeting 
amyloid-β plaques and diagnosed in vivo by 
biomarkers, prompting the revision of criteria 
for the diagnosis and staging of this disease.
A workgroup convened by the Alzheimer’s Association recently pub-
lished ‘Revised Criteria for Diagnosis and Staging of Alzheimer’s Dis-
ease’1. Members of this committee (who also co-authored this comment) 
were selected to provide balanced representation of academia, clinical 
medicine, industry, the US National Institute on Aging (NIA) and the 
US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and included participants 
from the USA and Europe. The revised criteria1 are an update to previ-
ous criteria published in 2011 and 20182,3. Formulation of these revised 
criteria1 was prompted by two major developments in this field that 
occurred after the 2018 research framework3 was published: regulatory 
approval of the first disease-targeted therapeutic agents for Alzheimer’s 
disease4,5; and development of accurate blood-based biomarkers of 
the disease6.
The 2024 revised criteria1 are founded on several core principles. 
Alzheimer’s disease is defined as a biological process that is first detect-
able by abnormal biomarkers of its defining neuropathologic features 
(amyloid-β plaques and tau neurofibrillary tangles) when an individual 
is asymptomatic. The disease progresses biologically during the pre-
clinical period and when a sufficient pathological burden is reached, 
symptoms appear and then progress. The entire disease course may 
span up to 30 years.
Categorization of biomarkers
In the revised criteria1, biomarkers are categorized into those that are 
core biomarkers of neuropathological changes7 (specific to Alzheimer’s 
disease), non-core biomarkers of processes (not specific to Alzhei-
mer’s but still important in disease pathogenesis, such as biomark-
ers of inflammation or immune activation, and neurodegeneration), 
and biomarkers of common non- Alzheimer’s disease co-pathologies 
(such as cerebrovascular disease and neuronal α-synuclein disease). 
This commentary focuses on core biomarkers for Alzheimer’s disease 
that fall into the following categories: biomarkers of the amyloid-β 
proteinopathy pathway (labeled ‘ A’); biofluid biomarkers of phospho-
rylated and secreted tau, which become abnormal early in the disease 
process (labeled ‘T1’); and biomarkers of tau neurofibrillary pathology 
that become abnormal later in the disease process (labeled ‘T2’). We 
group biomarkers into core 1 (A and T1) and core 2 (T2) (Table 1).
Core 1 biomarkers define the initial stage of Alzheimer’s disease 
that is detectable in vivo. An abnormal core 1 biomarker is sufficient 
to establish a diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease, and to inform clinical 
decision making (Table 2). Core 2 biomarkers are not typically used as 
standalone tests for the diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease, but when 
combined with core 1 they may be used to stage biological disease 
severity and provide prognostic information (Table 2).
Diagnosis
An abnormal core 1 biomarker test is diagnostic of Alzheimer’s disease. 
The following are currently considered fit for this purpose: amyloid 
positron emission tomography (PET); the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 
ratio of Aβ 42 to Aβ 40 (Aβ 42/40); the CSF ratio of tau phosphorylated at 
threonine 181 (p-tau181) to Aβ 42 (p-tau181/Aβ 42); the CSF ratio of total tau 
to Aβ 42 (t-tau/Aβ 42) ratio; and accurate plasma assays (defined below). 
However, the revised criteria outline important caveats around diag-
nostics, especially using plasma biomarkers. Chief among these is 
a minimum diagnostic accuracy requirement (90% or greater) with 
respect to an accepted reference standard in the intended context 
of use (which includes a description of the intended use population). 
Amyloid PET ligands and CSF assays listed in Table 1  have received 
regulatory approval in the USA and the EU; the former were validated 
against autopsy8 and the latter were validated against amyloid PET9. 
Although no plasma assays have yet received regulatory approval, this 
is expected to change soon as some plasma assays (such as p-tau217) 
have demonstrated diagnostic accuracy equivalent to approved CSF 
assays10. The diagnostic accuracies of other plasma assays, however, 
do not meet the 90% standard10 and would not be considered fit for 
the purpose of diagnosis.
A second important caveat centers on the role of the clinician. 
The biologically based diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease is meant to 
 Check for updates
CREDIT : YUICHIR o CHINo/ MoMENT / GETTY

===== PAGE 2 =====
nature medicine Volume 30 | August 2024 | 2121–2124 | 2122
Comment
to enable effective treatments. Although Alzheimer’s disease is the 
most common pathological condition underlying progressive cogni-
tive impairment in older people, non-Alzheimer’s disease pathologies 
are also common13. The typical syndrome association with Alzheimer’s 
disease (a progressive memory impairment that progresses to other cog-
nitive domains) can also be caused by common non-Alzheimer’s disease 
pathologies, most often in combination. For example, in early amyloid-β 
immunotherapy trials in which eligibility was based on a traditional clini-
cal diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease without biological confirmation, 
30% of individuals had normal amyloid PET scans14, meaning that nearly 
one-third of participants in these trials did not have the disease they were 
being treated for. The position of the committee is that therapy directed 
toward a biological target requires confirmation of that biology both 
in clinical trials and in clinical practice. Thus, Alzheimer’s disease must 
be defined by its biology for medical progress to be made; the public is 
readily able to grasp this concept with the proper educational effort.
Requiring symptoms for diagnosis
A second critique argues that a diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease should 
require the presence of both abnormal biomarkers and the presence of 
clinical symptoms. The argument is that preclinical Alzheimer’s disease 
is not a valid concept and asymptomatic individuals with abnormal bio-
markers should be labeled ‘at risk’ for the disease. The reasoning is that 
many asymptomatic individuals with abnormal biomarkers (preclinical 
Alzheimer’s disease) will not develop symptoms in their lifetime. The 
argument continues, labeling such individuals with a disease may cause 
psychological, financial or social harm without potential for benefit, 
since at present, disease targeted treatments are not approved for 
preclinical Alzheimer’s disease.
The committee takes a different view1. First, diseases are routinely 
diagnosed in other areas of medicine while patients are asymptomatic. 
It is axiomatic throughout medicine that treatments are more effec -
tive when administered as early in the disease process as possible 2. 
Therefore, conducting clinical trials in people with preclinical Alzhei-
mer’s disease is considered by the committee to be a forward-looking 
approach to identify the most effective means of slowing or preventing 
the onset of symptoms.
Second, although it is true that many asymptotic individuals with 
abnormal Alzheimer’s biomarkers will not experience symptoms in 
their lifetime, this is because of increasing all-cause mortality rates with 
advancing age, not because Alzheimer’s disease pathology is benign 
in the preclinical period. Alzheimer’s disease is characterized by a pre-
clinical period of 15–20 years or more, which most often begins from age 
601. over half of individuals newly diagnosed in their mid-70s may not 
experience symptoms in their lifetime, but nearly half will. The position 
assist, rather than supplant, the clinical evaluation of individuals with 
cognitive impairment. Biomarker testing should only be performed 
under the supervision of a clinician.
Staging
The revised criteria1 describe separate schemes for staging biological 
Alzheimer’s disease severity and for staging the severity of clinical symp-
toms. Biological staging is based on ordering of biomarker events in the 
natural history of the disease from observational research. A four-point 
staging scale (A–D) is outlined that can be accomplished by amyloid and 
tau PET, by core 1 biofluids and tau PET, or a forward-looking conceptual 
staging approach based only on biofluids11,12. Staging the severity of 
clinical symptoms is based on a six-point numeric scale ranging from 
asymptomatic (stage 1) to severe dementia (stage 6). Integration of 
biological and clinical staging is described using an alphanumeric 
labeling scheme (for example, stage 1A, 4D, and so on).
Although clinical stages generally worsen with increasing biologi-
cal stages, the revised criteria recognize that mismatches between clini-
cal and biological stage commonly occur. This is because Alzheimer’s 
disease is only one of several common pathologies that underlie cog-
nitive decline and dementia in older individuals; the other three most 
common disorders are cerebrovascular disease, neuronal α-synuclein 
disease, and limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy 
(LATE)13. Individuals with one or more of these pathologies are likely to 
have worse clinical stage than expected for their biological Alzheimer’s 
disease stage. Conversely, individuals with exceptional resilience or 
cognitive reserve may have better clinical stage than expected for their 
biological Alzheimer’s disease stage.
Use of the name Alzheimer’s disease
Two successive drafts of these criteria were presented at scientific meet-
ings in 2023 and were also posted for public comment. It is our view 
that some of the comments or critiques offered contradict fundamental 
positions of the committee and so below we describe these critiques 
and the rational underlying the committee’s decision to formulate 
the criteria as done.
The term Alzheimer’s disease is understood by many in the pub-
lic and in general medicine to be synonymous with dementia. Many 
people think of Alzheimer’s disease as a progressive impairment that 
leads to loss of functional independence in older people, irrespective 
of etiology. A common critique of the revised criteria
1 is that to avoid 
confusion on the part of the public, the term Alzheimer’s disease should 
be used to describe all-cause dementia and the distinction between 
etiology (pathobiology) and symptoms (the result of pathobiology) 
should be ignored.
The position of the committee is that not only is this scientifically 
inaccurate, but it is also harmful. The etiology or etiologies underly-
ing clinical symptoms must be understood and accurately diagnosed 
Table 1 | Categorization of core Alzheimer’s disease 
biomarkers
Category Modalities
Core 1
Amyloid PET and biofluid measures of amyloid-β 
proteinopathy (A)
Biofluid measures of phosphorylated and secreted 
Alzheimer’s disease tau (T1)
Core 2 Tau PET and biofluid measures of Alzheimer’s disease tau 
proteinopathy (T
2)
Table 2 | Intended uses of core Alzheimer’s disease 
biomarkers
Category Intended use Details
Core 1 Diagnosis
Early detection of Alzheimer’s disease in 
asymptomatic individuals
Confirmation that Alzheimer’s disease is 
an underlying pathology in symptomatic 
individuals
Core 2 Staging and 
prognosis
Provide information on the likelihood that 
symptoms are associated with Alzheimer’s 
disease
Inform on the risk of and rate of progression

===== PAGE 3 =====
nature medicine Volume 30 | August 2024 | 2121–2124 | 2123
Comment
of the committee is that asymptomatic individuals who may experience 
symptoms deserve treatment once these are approved for the preclinical 
population. Mortality from unrelated diseases should not be interpreted 
to indicate that Alzheimer’s disease in asymptomatic persons is a benign 
condition. Individuals with Down syndrome have genetically determined 
Alzheimer’s disease (trisomy 21) and 95% of these individuals develop 
dementia in their lifetime15, because the average age of onset of clinical 
symptoms is mid-50s, at which age all-cause mortality rates are far lower 
than in older age. Remaining life expectancy is an important considera-
tion in clinical management, but mortality from unrelated causes should 
not be a criterion used to define what is and what is not a disease1.
Third, the revised criteria have been criticized for advocating 
screening of the general population with Alzheimer’s disease bio -
markers, which could place asymptomatic persons who test positive 
in a position of potential harm without benefit. However, the criteria 
are very clear that because no treatment has yet been approved for 
asymptomatic people, biomarker testing should not be performed in 
this population outside the context of observational or therapeutic 
research studies1. This may change in the future, however, pending 
results of ongoing trials.
Validation of plasma biomarkers
Criticism was raised that plasma biomarkers are too new to be used 
clinically and have not been adequately tested in all representative 
populations. While the committee recognizes that plasma biomark-
ers are a recent development, we also outline rigorous criteria that 
plasma biomarkers need to meet to be considered fit for the purpose 
of diagnosis1. The committee strongly endorses the need for testing 
and prospective evaluation of plasma biomarkers in more representa-
tive populations.
Neuropathological underpinnings of diagnosis by 
biomarkers
Some critics claim that defining Alzheimer’s disease by an abnormal 
core 1 biomarker is a departure from the accepted neuropathological 
definition that requires the presence of both amyloid-β plaques and 
tau tangles7. Regulatory approval of amyloid PET ligands was based on 
their ability to detect moderate to frequent neuritic amyloid-β plaques 
at autopsy and not both plaques and tangles8, whereas approval of CSF 
assays was based on their ability to differentiate normal from abnormal 
amyloid PET scans9. Thus, the argument of these critics is that defining 
Alzheimer’s disease by the presence of abnormal core 1 biomarkers 
does not fully capture the neuropathological standard that requires tau 
tangles in addition to β-amyloid plaques. However, amyloid PET scans 
(and thus biofluid surrogates) are not able to reliably detect mild levels 
of Alzheimer’s disease pathology; it can detect moderate to frequent 
neuritic plaques but not sparse plaques8. Given that nearly all (over 90%) 
of individuals with moderate to frequent neuritic plaques at autopsy 
(and therefore abnormal core 1 biomarkers) will also have sufficient 
neurofibrillary tangle pathology to meet criteria for a pathological 
diagnosis of intermediate to high Alzheimer’s disease neuropathologic 
change7, diagnosing Alzheimer’s disease based on abnormal core 1 
biomarkers will nearly always be consistent with the accepted neuro-
pathologic reference standard for Alzheimer’s disease.
Future
Many in the Alzheimer’s disease field are optimistic about the pros-
pects for improving care of patients. Recent advances in the ability 
to diagnose and treat Alzheimer’s disease herald a virtuous cycle in 
which improvements in diagnostic methods enable more sophisti -
cated treatment approaches, which in turn steer advances in diagnostic 
methods. An unchanging principle, however, is that effective treatment 
will always rely on the ability to diagnose and stage the biology driving 
the disease process. The committee recognizes that the feasibility of 
implementing criteria for biologically based diagnosis and staging 
of Alzheimer’s disease in clinical practice varies across regions, even 
within high-income countries. We anticipate that the increasing avail-
ability and accuracy of blood-based biomarkers will make these criteria 
more widely deployable.
Clifford R. Jack Jr 1 , Scott J. Andrews2, Thomas G. Beach3, 
Teresa Buracchio4, Billy Dunn5, Ana Graf6, Oskar Hansson    7,8, 
Carole Ho9, William Jagust    10, Eric McDade    11, 
Jose Luis Molinuevo12, Ozioma C. Okonkwo13, Luca Pani14, 
Michael S. Rafii    15, Philip Scheltens16, Eric Siemers17, 
Heather M. Snyder18, Reisa Sperling    19, Charlotte E. Teunissen    20 
& Maria C. Carrillo18
1Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. 2Global 
Evidence & Outcomes, Takeda Pharmaceuticals Company Limited, 
Cambridge, MA, USA. 3Civin Laboratory for Neuropathology, 
Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, AZ, USA. 4Office of 
Neuroscience, US Food and Drug Administration, Silver Spring, MD, 
USA. 
5The Michael J Fox Foundation for Parkinson’s Research, New 
York, NY, USA. 6Neuroscience Global Drug Development, Novartis, 
Basel, Switzerland. 7Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department 
of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Faculty of Medicine, Lund University, 
Lund, Sweden. 
8Memory Clinic, Clinical Research Centre, Skåne 
University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden. 9Denali Therapeutics, South 
San Francisco, CA, USA. 10School of Public Health and Helen Wills 
Neuroscience Institute, University of California Berkeley, Berkeley, 
CA, USA. 
11Department of Neurology, Washington University St 
Louis School of Medicine, St Louis, MO, USA. 12Experimental 
Medicine, Department Global Clinical Development H. Lundbeck 
A/S, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
13Department of Medicine, Division 
of Geriatrics and Gerontology, University of Wisconsin School of 
Medicine, Madison, WI, USA. 
14University of Miami, Miami, FL, USA. 
15Alzheimer’s Therapeutic Research Institute (ATRI), Keck School of 
Medicine at the University of Southern California, San Diego, CA, USA. 
16Department of Neurology, Amsterdam University Medical Center 
(Emeritus), Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 17Clinical Research, Acumen 
Pharmaceuticals, Zionsville, IN, USA. 18Medical & Scientific Relations 
Division, Alzheimer’s Association, Chicago, IL, USA. 19Department of 
Neurology, Brigham and Women’s Hospital, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. 
20Neurochemistry 
Laboratory, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Amsterdam UMC, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.  
 e-mail: jack.clifford@mayo.edu
Published online: 28 June 2024
References
1. Jack, C. R. Jr. et al. Alzheimers Dement. https://doi.org/10.1002/alz.13859 (2024).
2. Sperling, R. A. et al. Alzheimers Dement. 7, 280–292 (2011).
3. Jack, C. R. Jr. et al. Alzheimers Dement. 14, 535–562 (2018).
4. van Dyck, C. H. et al. N. Engl. J. Med. 388, 9–21 (2023).
5. Sims, J. R. et al. JAMA 330, 512–527 (2023).
6. Hansson, O., Blennow, K., Zetterberg, H. & Dage, J. Nat. Aging 3, 506–519 (2023).
7. Hyman, B. T. et al. Alzheimers Dement. 8, 1–13 (2012).
8. Clark, C. M. et al. Lancet Neurol. 11, 669–678 (2012).
9. PRNewswire https://go.nature.com/3WcfHYH (4 May 2022).

===== PAGE 4 =====
nature medicine Volume 30 | August 2024 | 2121–2124 | 2124
Comment
10. Janelidze, S. et al. Brain 146, 1592–1601 (2023).
11. Barthelemy, N. R. et al. Nat. Med. 26, 398–407 (2020).
12. Salvadó, G. et al. Alzheimers Dement. 19, e075367 (2023).
13. Beach, T. G. & Malek-Ahmadi, M. J. Alzheimers Dis. 79, 389–400 (2021).
14. Doody, R. S. et al. N. Engl. J. Med. 370, 311–321 (2014).
15. McCarron, M. et al. J. Intellect. Disabil. Res. 61, 843–852 (2017).
Acknowledgements
E. Masliah and L. Ryan are contributing members of the committee and are acknowledged 
here. E. Masliah is also a member of the steering committee, as are C.R.J. B.D. H.M.S.  
and M.C.C.
Competing interests
C.R.J. is employed by Mayo Clinic; receives grant funding from the National Institutes of 
Health (NIH), the Alexander family professorship and the GHR Foundation; served on a data 
and safety monitoring board for Roche pro bono within the past 36 months with no payments 
to the individual or institution involved; and received funding from the Alzheimer’s Association 
for travel and holds index funds. J.S.A. is employed by Takeda Pharmaceuticals and is a minor 
shareholder for the company; has a leadership or fiduciary role in the Clinical Trials on 
Alzheimer’s Disease (CTAD) Task Force—Clinical Meaningfulness and Optimizing Therapies, 
Alzheimer’s Disease PACE Executive Steering Committee and UsAgainstAlzheimer’s—Clinical 
Meaningfulness Forum; is a former employee of Eli Lilly and Company and is a minor 
shareholder for the company. T.G.B. is employed by Banner Health; received grant funding 
from the NIH, Veterans Administration, State of Arizona, Life Molecular Imaging, Michael J. Fox 
Foundation for Parkinson’s Research, Avid Radiopharmaceuticals/Eli Lilly and Gates 
Foundation; received consulting fees from Aprinoia Therapeutics and Acadia 
Pharmaceuticals, and consulted unpaid for Biogen; received payment or honoraria from the 
World PD Coalition, Mayo Clinic Florida, Stanford University and the IOS Press-Journal of 
Parkinson’s Disease; received support for attending meetings from the Alzheimer’s 
Association, AD/PD/Kenes Group, Mayo Clinic Florida and the Universitätsklinikum 
Hamburg-Eppendorf; and has a leadership or fiduciary role and stock options with Vivid 
Genomics. T.B. is employed by the US FDA and has no financial conflicts to disclose. B.D. is a 
consultant and received consulting fees for his role as an advisor for Arch Venture Partners, 
Cerveau Technologies, Epilepsy Foundation, F-PRIME Capital, Loulou Foundation and Michael 
J. Fox Foundation; held a past position of leadership or fiduciary role in the Virginia 
Neurological Society (past president) and Prothena (director); and holds stock options with 
Prothena. A.G. is employed by Novartis Pharma AG and has stock options in the company.  
O.H. is employed by Lund University; received grants or contracts from ADx, AVID 
Radiopharmaceuticals, Biogen, Eli Lilly, Eisai, Fujirebio, GE Healthcare, Pfizer and Roche; and 
received consulting fees from AC Immune, Amylyx, Alzpath, BioArctic, Biogen, Cerveau, Eisai, 
Eli Lilly, Fujirebio, Genentech, Merck, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Roche, Sanofi and Siemens.  
O.H. is employed by Lund University; received research support to his institution from AVID 
Radiopharmaceuticals, Biogen, C2N Diagnostics, Eli Lilly, Eisai, Fujirebio, GE Healthcare and 
Roche; received consultancy or speaker fees within the past 2 years from AC Immune, 
Alzpath, BioArctic, Biogen, Bristol Meyer Squibb, Cerveau, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Fujirebio, Merck, 
Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Roche, Sanofi and Siemens. C.H. is employed by Denali Therapeutics 
and has stock options with the company; is a board director for Beam Therapeutics and NGM 
Therapeutics and has stock options with both companies. W.J. is employed by the University 
of California, Berkley; received grants or contracts paid to his institution from the US NIA, 
Roche/Genentech, Alzheimer’s Association and BrightFocus Foundation; received consulting 
fees from Biogen, Clario, Eisai, Lilly and Prothena; and has stock with Optoceutics and 
Molecular Medicine. E. McDade is employed by Washington University, St Louis, and received 
grant funding directly to his institution from NIA, Eli Lilly, Hoffmann-La Roche, Alzheimer’s 
Association and GHR Foundation; received royalties for work on ‘Methods of diagnosing  
AD with phosphorylation changes’, which is licensed to C2N with royalties to himself and 
Washington University; received consulting fees from Alzamend (scientific advisory board 
member), Sanofi, AstraZeneca, Roche, Grifols, Merck and Sage; received payments from 
Neurology Live, Kaplan-Projects in Knowledge, and support for travel from Foundation 
Alzheimer, Alzheimer’s Association and Eisai; has a patent planned, issued or pending on 
‘Methods of diagnosing Alzheimer’s disease with phosphorylation changes’; participated on a 
data safety monitoring board or advisory board for Alector and Eli Lilly, both roles for which he 
was paid; and has a leadership or fiduciary role in Alzamend (paid). J.L.M. is a full-time 
employee of H. Lundbeck A/S. O.O. is employed by University of Wisconsin School of 
Medicine & Public Health and received support paid to his institution from the following 
grants: R01AG062167, R01AG077507, U19AG024904, U19AG078109, U19AG073153, 
R01AG066203, R01AG070028, R01AG027161 and RF1AG052324; received consulting fees 
from Mayo Clinic Rochester and IUPUI; holds a leadership or fiduciary role in the International 
Neuropsychological Society (board member); and previously held an advisory role for Society 
for Black Neuropsychology. L.P. is employed by the University of Miami and the University of 
Modena and Reggio Emilia and has no financial conflicts to disclose; in unrelated areas,  
he holds options/stocks from Relmada Therapeutics (US) and NetraMark (Canada). M.R. is 
employed by University of Southern California and the Alzheimer’s Therapeutics Research 
Institute (ATRI); received grants or contracts paid to his institution from Eisai (AHEAD study) 
and Eli Lilly (A4 study); received consulting fees from AC Immune and Ionis; and has 
participated on a data safety monitoring board or advisory board for Alzheon, Aptah Bio, 
Biohaven, Embic, Keystone Bio, Prescient Imaging and Positrigo. P.S. is employed by Life 
Science Partners and is professor emeritus Amsterdam University Medical Center; received 
grants or contracts paid to his institution from Novo Nordisk, Toyama, UCB, AC Immune and 
Alzheon; has an unpaid leadership position as chair of World Dementia Council and holds 
stock options in EQT AB. E.S. is employed by Acumen Pharmaceuticals; received consulting 
fees from Biogen, Cogstate, Cortexyme, Partner Therapeutics, Pinteon Therapeutics, 
Prothena, Vaccinex, Acumen, Pharmaceuticals, Gates Ventures LLC and Hoffman La Roche 
and payments were made to Siemers Integration LLC; participated on a data safety monitoring 
board for Hoffman La Roche; and has had a leadership or fiduciary role with the Alzheimer’s 
Association and BrightFocus Foundation, both unpaid; holds stock options and is a 
shareholder for Acumen Pharmaceuticals, and is a shareholder for Eli Lilly and Company. H.S. 
is a full-time employee of the Alzheimer’s Association, Chicago, has a spouse who is employed 
by Abbott Laboratories in an unrelated area, and has no financial conflicts to disclose. R.S. is 
employed by Brigham and Women’s Hospital; received grants or contracts from the US NIA,  
Eli Lilly (public–private partnership trial funding), Eisai (public–private partnership trial funding), 
Alzheimer’s Association and GHR Foundation; and received consulting fees from Abbvie, AC 
Immune, Acumen, Alector, Alnylam, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Cytox, Genentech, Ionis, Janssen, 
NervGen, Neuraly, Neurocentria, Oligomerix, Prothena, Roche, Shionogi and Vaxxinity. C.E.T.  
is employed by Amsterdam UMC; received grants or contracts for research from the European 
Commission (Marie Curie International Training Network, grant 86019, MIRIADE), Innovative 
Medicines Initiatives 3TR (Horizon 2020, grant 831434) EPND (IMI 2 Joint Undertaking, grant 
101034344) and JPND (bPRIDE), National MS Society (Progressive MS Alliance), Alzheimer 
Drug Discovery Foundation, Alzheimer Association, Health Holland, the Dutch Research 
Council (ZonMW), including TAP-dementia, a ZonMw funded project (10510032120003) in the 
context of the Dutch National Dementia Strategy, Alzheimer Drug Discovery Foundation, The 
Selfridges Group Foundation, Alzheimer Netherlands; is recipient of ABOARD, public–private 
partnership receiving funding from ZonMW (73305095007) and Health–Holland, Topsector 
Life Sciences & Health (PPP-allowance; LSHM20106); is a contract researcher for ADx 
Neurosciences, AC-Immune, Aribio, Axon Neurosciences, Beckman-Coulter, BioConnect, 
Bioorchestra, Brainstorm Therapeutics, Celgene, Cognition Therapeutics, EIP Pharma, Eisai,  
Eli Lilly, Fujirebio, Grifols, Instant Nano Biosensors, Merck, Novo Nordisk, Olink, PeopleBio, 
Quanterix, Roche, Siemens, Toyama, Vivoryon and the European Commission; received 
payment or honoraria to her institution from Eli Lilly, Grifols, Novo Nordisk, Olink and Roche; 
serves on editorial boards of Medidact Neurologie/Springer and Neurology: Neuroimmunology 
& Neuroinflammation, and is editor of Alzheimer Research and Therapy. M.C. is a full-time 
employee of the Alzheimer’s Association, has a daughter in the neuroscience program at the 
University of South Carolina, and has no financial conflicts to disclose.